53-2b-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Assisting political subdivision" means a political subdivision that provides emergency services to a political subdivision in another state in accordance with a local emergency response agreement between the political subdivisions.

(2)  "Certification" includes any license, certificate, permit, document, or other evidence issued by a government entity that authorizes a person to engage in an activity, within the person's scope of practice, that requires a specific skill set, education, expertise, or other qualifications.

(3)  "Emergency" means:

(a)  a natural or man-made disaster, a riot, a civil disturbance, violence, criminal activity, a fire, a flood, or extreme weather;

(b)  an injury, illness, or other medical condition that requires an expedited response; or

(c)  a circumstance that presents an imminent threat to life, property, or the public health, safety, or welfare.

(4)  "Emergency responder" means a person employed by, under contract with, or acting as an official volunteer for a political subdivision of a state that provides emergency services, including any of the following:

(a)  a law enforcement officer;

(b)  a firefighter;

(c)  a provider of medical services or first aid;

(d)  an explosives expert;

(e)  a person who provides hazardous materials containment or cleanup; or

(f)  another provider of emergency services.

(5)  "Emergency services" means services provided by a public entity in response to an emergency.

(6)  "Interstate emergency response agreement" means an agreement described in Subsection 53-2b-202(1) between Utah and another state authorizing a political subdivision in Utah to enter into an agreement to provide emergency services to, and receive emergency services from, a political subdivision in the other state.

(7)  "Local emergency response agreement" means an agreement described in Subsection 53-2b-202(2)(a) that is:

(a)  between a political subdivision in Utah and a political subdivision in another state, providing for the provision of emergency services to, or the receipt of emergency services from, each other; and

(b)  entered into under the provisions of this chapter.

(8)  "Requesting political subdivision" means a political subdivision that requests emergency services from a political subdivision in another state in accordance with a local emergency response agreement between the political subdivisions.



Amended by Chapter 331, 2013 General Session, (Coordination Clause) 

Enacted by Chapter 331, 2013 General Session

