73-3-14.   Judicial review of state engineer order.
(1) (a) A person aggrieved by an order of the state engineer may obtain
judicial review in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative
Procedures Act, and this section.
(b)  Venue for judicial review of an informal adjudicative proceeding is in
the county in which the water source or a portion of the water source is
located.
(2)  The state engineer shall be joined as a respondent in a petition to
review the state engineer's decision, but no judgment for costs or expenses of
the litigation may be rendered against the state engineer.
(3)  A person who files a petition for judicial review as authorized in this
section shall:
(a)  name the state engineer as a respondent; and
(b)  provide written notice in accordance with Subsection (5) to each person
who filed a protest in accordance with Section 73-3-7 of:
(i)  the filing of the petition for judicial review; and
(ii)  the opportunity to intervene in accordance with Utah Rules of Civil
Procedure, Rule 24.
(4)  In addition to the requirements of Subsection (3), a protestant in the
adjudicative proceeding who files a petition for judicial review shall also
name as a respondent the person:
(a)  who requested the adjudicative proceeding; or
(b)  against whom the state engineer brought the adjudicative proceeding.
(5)  The written notice required by this section shall:
(a)  be mailed:
(i)  within the time provided for by Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 4(b);
and
(ii)  to the address on record with the state engineer's office at the time
the order is issued; and
(b)  include:
(i)  a copy of the petition; and
(ii)  the address of the court in which the petition is pending.
(6)  If a person who files a petition for judicial review fails to provide
notice as required by this section, the court shall dismiss the petition
without prejudice upon:
(a)  the motion of a party;
(b)  the special appearance of a person who:
(i)  participated in the adjudicative proceeding; and
(ii)  is not a party; or
(c)  the court's own motion.
(7)  A person who files a petition for judicial review is not required to:
(a)  notwithstanding Subsection 63G-4-401(3)(b), name a respondent that is not
required by this section; and
(b)  notwithstanding Subsection 63G-4-402(2)(a)(iv), identify all parties to
the adjudicative proceeding.
