73-3-25.   Well driller's license -- Enforcement.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Well" means an open or cased excavation or borehole for diverting, using, or monitoring underground water made by any construction method.

(b)  "Well driller" means a person with a license to engage in well drilling for compensation or otherwise.

(c)  "Well drilling" means the act of:

(i)  drilling, constructing, repairing, renovating, deepening, cleaning, developing, or abandoning a well; or

(ii)  installing or repairing a pump in a well.

(2) (a)  Notwithstanding Subsection (3), a person who installs or repairs a pump in a well on the person's own property for the person's own use is not required to obtain a license under this section.

(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(c), a person who installs or repairs a pump in a well for compensation:

(i)  shall obtain a license as required by Subsection (3); and

(ii)  is subject to all of this section's provisions.

(c)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(b), a person who performs electrical repairs on a pump in a well is not required to obtain a license as required by Subsection (3).

(3) (a) (i)  A person shall obtain a license as provided in this section before engaging in well drilling.

(ii)  The state engineer may enforce Subsection (3)(a)(i) in accordance with Sections 73-2-25 and 73-2-26.

(b)  A person applying for a well driller license shall file a well driller bond:

(i)  with the state engineer; and

(ii)  payable to the Division of Water Rights.

(c) (i)  Compliance with this section and the rules authorized by this section is required to obtain or renew a well driller license.

(ii)  The state engineer may refuse to issue a license if it appears an applicant violates a rule authorized by this section.

(d)  A well driller license is not transferable.

(4)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the state engineer may make rules establishing:

(a)  the amount, form, and general administrative requirements of a well driller bond;

(b)  the amount of a well driller fine;

(c)  minimum well drilling standards;

(d)  well driller reporting requirements;

(e)  the requirements for obtaining a well driller license, including:

(i)  a well driller license application form;

(ii)  the license expiration date; and

(iii)  the license renewal cycle; and

(f)  a procedure to enforce a well drilling standard or other well drilling requirement.

(5) (a)  A well driller shall submit a report to the state engineer:

(i)  containing data relating to each well;

(ii)  within 30 days after the completion or abandonment of the well drilling;

(iii)  on forms furnished by the state engineer; and

(iv)  containing information required by the state engineer.

(b)  In accordance with Sections 73-2-25 and 73-2-26, the state engineer may commence an enforcement action against a person who fails to submit a report required by Subsection (5)(a) within 90 days of the day on which the well driller license lapses.

(6) (a)  A well driller shall comply with the rules authorized by this section.

(b)  If the state engineer determines that a well driller has failed to comply with a rule, the state engineer may, in accordance with the procedures established in rule:

(i) (A)  order that a well driller pay a fine; or

(B)  revoke or suspend the well driller's license; and

(ii)  exact the bond.

(7) (a)  The state engineer shall retain the money from a fine or exacting a bond as a dedicated credit.

(b)  The state engineer may expend:

(i)  money retained from a fine for:

(A)  well drilling inspection;

(B)  well drilling enforcement; or

(C)  well driller education; and

(ii)  money retained from exacting a bond to investigate or correct a deficiency by a well driller that could adversely affect the public interest resulting from noncompliance with a rule authorized by this section.



Amended by Chapter 124, 2010 General Session

