73-3-29.   Relocation of natural streams -- Written permit required --
Emergency work -- Violations.
(1)  Except as provided in Subsection (2), a state agency, county, city,
corporation, or person may not relocate any natural stream channel or alter
the beds and banks of any natural stream without first obtaining the written
approval of the state engineer.
(2) (a)  The state engineer may issue an emergency permit or order to relocate
a natural stream channel or alter the beds and banks of a natural stream as
provided by this Subsection (2) and Section 63G-4-502.
(b)  If an emergency situation arises which involves immediate or actual
flooding and threatens injury or damage to persons or property, steps
reasonably necessary to alleviate or mitigate the threat may be taken before a
written permit is issued subject to the requirements of this section.
(c) (i)  If the threat occurs during normal working hours, the state engineer
or the state engineer's representative must be notified immediately of the
threat.  After receiving notification of the threat, the state engineer or the
state engineer's representative may orally approve action to alleviate or
mitigate the threat.
(ii)  If the threat does not occur during normal working hours, action may be
taken to alleviate or mitigate the threat and the state engineer or the state
engineer's representative shall be notified of the action taken on the first
working day following the work.
(d)  A written application outlining the action taken or the action proposed
to be taken to alleviate or mitigate the threat shall be submitted to the
state engineer within two working days following notification of the threat to
the state engineer or the state engineer's representative.
(e) (i)  The state engineer shall inspect in a timely manner the site where
the emergency action was taken.
(ii)  After inspection, additional requirements, including mitigation
measures, may be imposed.
(f)  Adjudicative proceedings following the emergency work shall be informal
unless otherwise designated by the state engineer.
(3)  An application to relocate any natural stream channel or alter the beds
and banks of any natural stream shall be in writing and shall contain the
following:
(a)  the name and address of the applicant;
(b)  a complete and detailed statement of the location, nature, and type of
relocation or alteration;
(c)  the methods to be employed;
(d)  the purposes of the application; and
(e)  any additional information that the state engineer considers necessary,
including, but not limited to, plans and specifications of the proposed
construction of works.
(4) (a)  The state engineer shall, without undue delay, conduct investigations
that may be reasonably necessary to determine whether the proposed relocation
or alteration will:
(i)  impair vested water rights;
(ii)  unreasonably or unnecessarily affect any recreational use or the natural
stream environment;
(iii)  unreasonably or unnecessarily endanger aquatic wildlife; or
(iv)  unreasonably or unnecessarily diminish the natural channel's ability to
conduct high flows.
(b)  The application shall be approved unless the proposed relocation or
alteration will:
(i)  impair vested water rights;
(ii)  unreasonably or unnecessarily adversely affect any public recreational
use or the natural stream environment;
(iii)  unreasonably or unnecessarily endanger aquatic wildlife; or
(iv)  unreasonably or unnecessarily diminish the natural channel's ability to
conduct high flows.
(c)  The state engineer may approve the application, in whole or in part, with
any reasonable terms  to protect vested water rights, any public recreational
use, the natural stream environment, or aquatic wildlife.
(5)  No cost incurred by the applicant, including any cost incurred to comply
with the terms  imposed by the state engineer, is reimbursable by the Division
of Water Rights.
(6)  Except as provided in Subsection (2), a person who knowingly or
intentionally relocates any natural stream channel, or alters the bed or bank
of any natural stream channel without first obtaining the written approval of
the state engineer is guilty of a crime punishable under Section 73-2-27.
