59-10-103.   Definitions.
(1)  As used in this chapter:
(a)  "Adjusted gross income":
(i)  for a resident or nonresident individual, is as defined in Section 62,
Internal Revenue Code; or
(ii)  for a resident or nonresident estate or trust, is as calculated in
Section 67(e), Internal Revenue Code.
(b)  "Corporation" includes:
(i)  an association;
(ii)  a joint stock company; and
(iii)  an insurance company.
(c)  "Distributable net income" is as defined in Section 643, Internal Revenue
Code.
(d)  "Employee" is as defined in Section 59-10-401.
(e)  "Employer" is as defined in Section 59-10-401.
(f)  "Federal taxable income":
(i)  for a resident or nonresident individual, means taxable income as defined
by Section 63, Internal Revenue Code; or
(ii)  for a resident or nonresident estate or trust, is as calculated in
Section 641(a) and (b), Internal Revenue Code.
(g)  "Fiduciary" means:
(i)  a guardian;
(ii)  a trustee;
(iii)  an executor;
(iv)  an administrator;
(v)  a receiver;
(vi)  a conservator; or
(vii)  any person acting in any fiduciary capacity for any individual.
(h)  "Guaranteed annuity interest" is as defined in 26 C.F.R. Sec.
1.170A-6(c)(2).
(i)  "Homesteaded land diminished from the Uintah and Ouray Reservation" means
the homesteaded land that was held to have been diminished from the Uintah and
Ouray Reservation in Hagen v. Utah, 510 U.S. 399 (1994).
(j)  "Individual" means a natural person and includes aliens and minors.
(k)  "Irrevocable trust" means a trust in which the settlor may not revoke or
terminate all or part of the trust without the consent of a person who has a
substantial beneficial interest in the trust and the interest would be
adversely affected by the exercise of the settlor's power to revoke or
terminate all or part of the trust.
(l)  "Military service" is as defined in Pub. L. No. 108-189, Sec. 101.
(m)  "Nonresident individual" means an individual who is not a resident of
this state.
(n)  "Nonresident trust" or "nonresident estate" means a trust or estate which
is not a resident estate or trust.
(o) (i)  "Partnership" includes a syndicate, group, pool, joint venture, or
other unincorporated organization:
(A)  through or by means of which any business, financial operation, or
venture is carried on; and
(B)  which is not, within the meaning of this chapter:
(I)  a trust;
(II)  an estate; or
(III)  a corporation.
(ii)  "Partnership" does not include any organization not included under the
definition of "partnership" in Section 761, Internal Revenue Code.
(iii)  "Partner" includes a member in a syndicate, group, pool, joint venture,
or organization described in Subsection (1)(o)(i).
(p)  "Qualified nongrantor charitable lead trust" means a trust:
(i)  that is irrevocable;
(ii)  that has a trust term measured by:
(A)  a fixed term of years; or
(B)  the life of a person living on the day on which the trust is created;
(iii)  under which:
(A)  a portion of the value of the trust assets is distributed during the
trust term:
(I)  to an organization described in Section 170(c), Internal Revenue Code;
and
(II)  as a:
(Aa)  guaranteed annuity interest; or
(Bb)  unitrust interest; and
(B)  assets remaining in the trust at the termination of the trust term are
distributed to a beneficiary:
(I)  designated in the trust; and
(II)  that is not an organization described in Section 170(c), Internal
Revenue Code;
(iv)  for which the trust is allowed a deduction under Section 642(c),
Internal Revenue Code; and
(v)  under which the grantor of the trust is not treated as the owner of any
portion of the trust for federal income tax purposes.
(q) (i)  "Resident individual" means:
(A)  an individual who is domiciled in this state for any period of time
during the taxable year, but only for the duration of the period during which
the individual is domiciled in this state; or
(B)  an individual who is not domiciled in this state but:
(I)  maintains a place of abode in this state; and
(II)  spends in the aggregate 183 or more days of the taxable year in this
state.
(ii)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, and for purposes of Subsection (1)(q)(i)(B), the commission shall by rule
define what constitutes spending a day of the taxable year in the state.
(r)  "Resident estate" or "resident trust" is as defined in Section 75-7-103.
(s)  "Servicemember" is as defined in Pub. L. No. 108-189, Sec. 101.
(t)  "State income tax percentage for a nonresident estate or trust" means a
percentage equal to a nonresident estate's or trust's state taxable income for
the taxable year divided by the nonresident estate's or trust's total adjusted
gross income for that taxable year after making the adjustments required by:
(i)  Section 59-10-202;
(ii)  Section 59-10-207;
(iii)  Section 59-10-209.1; or
(iv)  Section 59-10-210.
(u)  "State income tax percentage for a nonresident individual" means a
percentage equal to a nonresident individual's state taxable income for the
taxable year divided by the difference between:
(i)  subject to Section 59-10-1405, the nonresident individual's total
adjusted gross income for that taxable year, after making the:
(A)  additions and subtractions required by Section 59-10-114; and
(B)  adjustments required by Section 59-10-115; and
(ii)  if the nonresident individual described in Subsection (1)(u)(i) is a
servicemember, the compensation the servicemember receives for military
service if the servicemember is serving in compliance with military orders.
(v)  "State income tax percentage for a part-year resident individual" means,
for a taxable year, a fraction:
(i)  the numerator of which is the sum of:
(A)  subject to Section 59-10-1404.5, for the time period during the taxable
year that the part-year resident individual is a resident, the part-year
resident individual's total adjusted gross income for that time period, after
making the:
(I)  additions and subtractions required by Section 59-10-114; and
(II)  adjustments required by Section 59-10-115; and
(B)  for the time period during the taxable year that the part-year resident
individual is a nonresident, an amount calculated by:
(I)  determining the part-year resident individual's adjusted gross income for
that time period, after making the:
(Aa)  additions and subtractions required by Section 59-10-114; and
(Bb)  adjustments required by Section 59-10-115; and
(II)  calculating the portion of the amount determined under Subsection
(1)(v)(i)(B)(I) that is derived from Utah sources in accordance with Section
59-10-117; and
(ii)  the denominator of which is the difference between:
(A)  the part-year resident individual's total adjusted gross income for that
taxable year, after making the:
(I)  additions and subtractions required by Section 59-10-114; and
(II)  adjustments required by Section 59-10-115; and
(B)  if the part-year resident individual is a servicemember, any compensation
the servicemember receives for military service during the portion of the
taxable year that the servicemember is a nonresident if the servicemember is
serving in compliance with military orders.
(w)  "Taxable income" or "state taxable income":
(i)  subject to Section 59-10-1404.5, for a resident individual, means the
resident individual's adjusted gross income after making the:
(A)  additions and subtractions required by Section 59-10-114; and
(B)  adjustments required by Section 59-10-115;
(ii)  for a nonresident individual, is an amount calculated by:
(A)  determining the nonresident individual's adjusted gross income for the
taxable year, after making the:
(I)  additions and subtractions required by Section 59-10-114; and
(II)  adjustments required by Section 59-10-115; and
(B)  calculating the portion of the amount determined under Subsection
(1)(w)(ii)(A) that is derived from Utah sources in accordance with Section
59-10-117;
(iii)  for a resident estate or trust, is as calculated under Section
59-10-201.1; and
(iv)  for a nonresident estate or trust, is as calculated under Section
59-10-204.
(x)  "Taxpayer" means any individual, estate, trust, or beneficiary of an
estate or trust, that has income subject in whole or part to the tax imposed
by this chapter.
(y)  "Trust term" means a time period:
(i)  beginning on the day on which a qualified nongrantor charitable lead
trust is created; and
(ii)  ending on the day on which the qualified nongrantor charitable lead
trust described in Subsection (1)(y)(i) terminates.
(z)  "Uintah and Ouray Reservation" means the lands recognized as being
included within the Uintah and Ouray Reservation in:
(i)  Hagen v. Utah, 510 U.S. 399 (1994); and
(ii)  Ute Indian Tribe v. Utah, 114 F.3d 1513 (10th Cir. 1997).
(aa)  "Unadjusted income" means an amount equal to the difference between:
(i)  the total income required to be reported by a resident or nonresident
estate or trust on the resident or nonresident estate's or trust's federal
income tax return for estates and trusts for the taxable year; and
(ii)  the sum of the following:
(A)  fees paid or incurred to the fiduciary of a resident or nonresident
estate or trust:
(I)  for administering the resident or nonresident estate or trust; and
(II)  that the resident or nonresident estate or trust deducts as allowed on
the resident or nonresident estate's or trust's federal income tax return for
estates and trusts for the taxable year;
(B)  the income distribution deduction that a resident or nonresident estate
or trust deducts under Section 651 or 661, Internal Revenue Code, as allowed
on the resident or nonresident estate's or trust's federal income tax return
for estates and trusts for the taxable year;
(C)  the amount that a resident or nonresident estate or trust deducts as a
deduction for estate tax or generation skipping transfer tax under Section
691(c), Internal Revenue Code, as allowed on the resident or nonresident
estate's or trust's federal income tax return for estates and trusts for the
taxable year; and
(D)  the amount that a resident or nonresident estate or trust deducts as a
personal exemption under Section 642(b), Internal Revenue Code, as allowed on
the resident or nonresident estate's or trust's federal income tax return for
estates and trusts for the taxable year.
(bb)  "Unitrust interest" is as defined in 26 C.F.R. Sec. 1.170A-6(c)(2).
(cc)  "Ute tribal member" means a person who is enrolled as a member of the
Ute Indian Tribe of the Uintah and Ouray Reservation.
(dd)  "Ute tribe" means the Ute Indian Tribe of the Uintah and Ouray
Reservation.
(ee)  "Wages" is as defined in Section 59-10-401.
(2) (a)  Any term used in this chapter has the same meaning as when used in
comparable context in the laws of the United States relating to federal income
taxes unless a different meaning is clearly required.
(b)  Any reference to the Internal Revenue Code or to the laws of the United
States shall mean the Internal Revenue Code or other provisions of the laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxes that are in effect for the
taxable year.
(c)  Any reference to a specific section of the Internal Revenue Code or other
provision of the laws of the United States relating to federal income taxes
shall include any corresponding or comparable provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code as amended, redesignated, or reenacted.
