59-10-1018.   Definitions -- Nonrefundable taxpayer tax credits.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Head of household filing status" means a head of household, as defined
in Section 2(b), Internal Revenue Code, who files a single federal individual
income tax return for the taxable year.
(b)  "Joint filing status" means:
(i)  a husband and wife who file a single return jointly under this chapter
for a taxable year; or
(ii)  a surviving spouse, as defined in Section 2(a), Internal Revenue Code,
who files a single federal individual income tax return for the taxable year.
(c)  "Single filing status" means:
(i)  a single individual who files a single federal individual income tax
return for the taxable year; or
(ii)  a married individual who:
(A)  does not file a single federal individual income tax return jointly with
that married individual's spouse for the taxable year; and
(B)  files a single federal individual income tax return for the taxable year.
(2)  Except as provided in Section 59-10-1002.2, and subject to Subsections
(3) through (5), a claimant may claim a nonrefundable tax credit against taxes
otherwise due under this part equal to the sum of:
(a) (i)  for a claimant that deducts the standard deduction on the claimant's
federal individual income tax return for the taxable year, 6% of the amount
the claimant deducts as allowed as the standard deduction on the claimant's
federal individual income tax return for that taxable year; or
(ii)  for a claimant that itemizes deductions on the claimant's federal
individual income tax return for the taxable year, the product of:
(A)  the difference between:
(I)  the amount the claimant deducts as allowed as an itemized deduction on
the claimant's federal individual income tax return for that taxable year; and
(II)  any amount of state or local income taxes the claimant deducts as
allowed as an itemized deduction on the claimant's federal individual income
tax return for that taxable year; and
(B)  6%; and
(b) the product of:
(i)  75% of the total amount the claimant deducts as allowed as a personal
exemption deduction on the claimant's federal individual income tax return for
that taxable year; and
(ii)  6%.
(3)  A claimant may not carry forward or carry back a tax credit under this
section.
(4)  The tax credit allowed by Subsection (2) shall be reduced by $.013 for
each dollar by which a claimant's state taxable income exceeds:
(a)  for a claimant who has a single filing status, $12,000;
(b)  for a claimant who has a head of household filing status, $18,000; or
(c)  for a claimant who has a joint filing status, $24,000.
(5) (a)  For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2009, the
commission shall increase or decrease the following dollar amounts by a
percentage equal to the percentage difference between the consumer price index
for the preceding calendar year and the consumer price index for calendar year
2007:
(i)  the dollar amount listed in Subsection (4)(a); and
(ii)  the dollar amount listed in Subsection (4)(b).
(b)  After the commission increases or decreases the dollar amounts listed in
Subsection (5)(a), the commission shall round those dollar amounts listed in
Subsection (5)(a) to the nearest whole dollar.
(c)  After the commission rounds the dollar amounts as required by Subsection
(5)(b), the commission shall increase or decrease the dollar amount listed in
Subsection (4)(c) so that the dollar amount listed in Subsection (4)(c) is
equal to the product of:
(i)  the dollar amount listed in Subsection (4)(a); and
(ii)  two.
(d)  For purposes of Subsection (5)(a), the commission shall calculate the
consumer price index as provided in Sections 1(f)(4) and 1(f)(5), Internal
Revenue Code.
