59-10-1402.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Addition, subtraction, or adjustment" means:
(a)  for a pass-through entity taxpayer that is classified as a C corporation
for federal income tax purposes, under Chapter 7, Corporate Franchise and
Income Taxes:
(i)  an addition to unadjusted income described in Section 59-7-105; or
(ii)  a subtraction from unadjusted income described in Section 59-7-106;
(b)  for a pass-through entity taxpayer that is classified as an individual,
partnership, or S corporation for federal income tax purposes:
(i)  an addition to or subtraction from adjusted gross income described in
Section 59-10-114; or
(ii)  an adjustment to adjusted gross income described in Section 59-10-115;
or
(c)  for a pass-through entity taxpayer that is classified as an estate or a
trust for federal income tax purposes:
(i)  an addition to or subtraction from unadjusted income described in Section
59-10-202; or
(ii)  an adjustment to unadjusted income described in Section 59-10-209.1.
(2)  "Business income" means income arising from transactions and activity in
the regular course of a pass-through entity's trade or business and includes
income from tangible and intangible property if the acquisition, management,
and disposition of the property constitutes integral parts of the pass-through
entity's regular trade or business operations.
(3)  "C corporation" is as defined in Section 1361, Internal Revenue Code.
(4)  "Commercial domicile" means the principal place from which the trade or
business of a business entity is directed or managed.
(5)  "Derived from or connected with Utah sources" means:
(a)  if a pass-through entity taxpayer is classified as a C corporation for
federal income tax purposes, derived from or connected with Utah sources in
accordance with Chapter 7, Part 3, Allocation and Apportionment of Income -
Utah UDITPA Provisions; or
(b)  if a pass-through entity or pass-through entity taxpayer is classified as
an estate, individual, partnership, S corporation, or a trust for federal
income tax purposes, derived from or connected with Utah sources in accordance
with Sections 59-10-117 and 59-10-118.
(6)  "Nonbusiness income" means all income of a pass-through entity other than
business income.
(7)  "Nonresident business entity" means a business entity that does not have
its commercial domicile in this state.
(8)  "Nonresident pass-through entity taxpayer" means a pass-through entity
taxpayer that is a:
(a)  nonresident individual; or
(b)  nonresident business entity.
(9) (a)  "Pass-through entity" means a business entity that is:
(i)  the following if classified as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes:
(A)  a general partnership;
(B)  a limited liability company;
(C)  a limited liability partnership; or
(D)  a limited partnership;
(ii)  an S corporation; or
(iii)  a business entity similar to Subsection (9)(a)(i) or (ii):
(A)  with respect to which the business entity's income, gain, loss,
deduction, or credit is divided among and passed through to one or more pass-
through entity taxpayers; and
(B)  as defined by the commission by rule made in accordance with Title 63G,
Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(b)  "Pass-through entity" does not include an estate or trust that is
classified as an estate or trust for federal income tax purposes.
(10)  "Pass-through entity taxpayer" means a resident or nonresident
individual, a resident or nonresident business entity, or a resident or
nonresident estate or trust:
(a)  that is:
(i)  for a general partnership, a partner;
(ii)  for a limited liability company, a member;
(iii)  for a limited liability partnership, a partner;
(iv)  for a limited partnership, a partner;
(v)  for an S corporation, a shareholder; or
(vi)  for a business entity described in Subsection (9)(a)(iii), a member,
partner, shareholder, or other title designated by the commission by rule made
in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act;
and
(b)  to which the income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit of a pass-through
entity is passed through.
(11)  "Resident business entity" means a business entity that is not a
nonresident business entity.
(12)  "Resident pass-through entity taxpayer" means a pass-through entity
taxpayer that is a:
(a)  resident individual; or
(b)  resident business entity.
(13)  "Return" means a return that a pass-through entity taxpayer files:
(a)  for a pass-through entity taxpayer that is classified as a C corporation
for federal income tax purposes, under Chapter 7, Corporate Franchise and
Income Taxes; or
(b)  for a pass-through entity taxpayer that is classified as an estate,
individual, partnership, S corporation, or a trust for federal income tax
purposes, under this chapter.
(14)  "S corporation" is as defined in Section 1361, Internal Revenue Code.
(15)  "Share of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit of a pass-through
entity" means:
(a)  for a pass-through entity except for a pass-through entity that is an S
corporation:
(i)  for a resident pass-through entity taxpayer, the resident pass-through
entity taxpayer's distributive share of income, gain, loss, deduction, or
credit of the pass-through entity as determined under Section 704 et seq.,
Internal Revenue Code; and
(ii)  for a nonresident pass-through entity taxpayer, the nonresident pass-
through entity taxpayer's distributive share of income, gain, loss, deduction,
or credit of the pass-through entity:
(A)  as determined under Section 704 et seq., Internal Revenue Code; and
(B)  derived from or connected with Utah sources; or
(b)  for an S corporation:
(i)  for a resident pass-through entity taxpayer, the resident pass-through
entity taxpayer's pro rata share of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit
of the S corporation, as determined under Sec. 1366 et seq., Internal Revenue
Code; or
(ii)  for a nonresident pass-through entity taxpayer, the nonresident pass-
through entity taxpayer's pro rata share of income, gain, loss, deduction, or
credit of the S corporation:
(A)  as determined under Section 1366 et seq., Internal Revenue Code; and
(B)  derived from or connected with Utah sources.
