34-20-8.   Unfair labor practices.
(1) It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employer, individually or in
concert with others:
(a)  To interfere with, restrain or coerce employees in the exercise of the
rights guaranteed in Section 34-20-7.
(b)  To dominate or interfere with the formation or administration of any
labor organization or contribute financial or other support to it; provided,
that subject to rules and regulations made and published by the board pursuant
to Section 34-20-6, an employer shall not be prohibited from permitting
employees to confer with him during working hours without loss of time or pay.
(c)  By discrimination in regard to hire or tenure of employment or any term
of condition of employment to encourage or discourage membership in any labor
organization; provided, that nothing in this act shall preclude an employer
from making an agreement with a labor organization (not established,
maintained or assisted by any action defined in this act as an unfair labor
practice) to require as a condition of employment, membership therein, if such
labor organization is the representative of the employees as provided in
Subsection 34-20-9(1) in the appropriate collective bargaining unit covered by
such agreement when made.
(d)  To refuse to bargain collectively with the representative of a majority
of his employees in any collective bargaining unit; provided, that, when two
or more labor organizations claim to represent a majority of the employees in
the bargaining unit, the employer shall be free to file with the board a
petition for investigation of certification of representatives and during the
pendency of such proceedings the employer shall not be deemed to have refused
to bargain.
(e)  To bargain collectively with the representatives of less than a majority
of his employees in a collective bargaining unit.
(f)  To discharge or otherwise discriminate against an employee because he has
filed charges or given testimony under this act.
(2)  It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employee individually or in
concert with others:
(a)  To coerce or intimidate an employee in the enjoyment of his legal rights,
including those guaranteed in Section 34-20-7, or to intimidate his family,
picket his domicile, or injure the person or property of such employee or his
family.
(b)  To coerce, intimidate or induce an employer to interfere with any of his
employees in the enjoyment of their legal rights, including those guaranteed
in Section 34-20-7, or to engage in any practice with regard to his employees
which would constitute an unfair labor practice if undertaken by him on his
own initiative.
(c)  To co-operate in engaging in, promoting, or inducing picketing (not
constituting an exercise of constitutionally guaranteed free speech),
boycotting or any other overt concomitant of a strike unless a majority in a
collective bargaining unit of the employees of an employer against whom such
acts are primarily directed have voted by secret ballot to call a strike.
(d)  To hinder or prevent, by mass picketing, threats, intimidation, force, or
coercion of any kind the pursuit of any lawful work or employment, or to
obstruct or interfere with entrance to or egress from any place of employment,
or to obstruct or interfere with free and uninterrupted use of public roads,
streets, highways, railways, airports, or other ways of travel or conveyance.
(e)  To engage in a secondary boycott; or to hinder or prevent, by threats,
intimidation, force, coercion, or sabotage, the obtaining, use or disposition
of materials, equipment, or services; or to combine or conspire to hinder or
prevent the obtaining, use or disposition of materials, equipment or services,
provided, however, that nothing herein shall prevent sympathetic strikes in
support of those in similar occupations working for other employers in the
same craft.
(f)  To take unauthorized possession of property of the employer.
(3)  It shall be an unfair labor practice for any person to do or cause to be
done on behalf of or in the interest of employers or employees, or in
connection with or to influence the outcome of any controversy as to
employment relations, any act prohibited by Subsections (1) and (2) of this
section.
