34-20-10.   Unfair labor practices -- Powers of board to prevent --
Procedure.
(1) (a)  The board may prevent any person from engaging in any unfair labor
practice, as listed in Section 34-20-8, affecting intrastate commerce or the
orderly operation of industry.
(b)  This authority is exclusive and is not affected by any other means of
adjustment or prevention that has been or may be established by agreement,
code, law, or otherwise.
(2)  The board shall comply with the procedures and requirements of Title 63G,
Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, in its adjudicative proceedings.
(3)  When it is charged that any person has engaged in or is engaged in any
unfair labor practice, the board, or any agent or agency designated by the
board, may issue and serve a notice of agency action on that person.
(4) (a)  If, upon all the testimony taken, the board finds that any person
named in the complaint has engaged in or is engaging in an unfair labor
practice, the board shall state its findings of fact and shall issue and serve
on the person an order to cease and desist from the unfair labor practice and
to take other affirmative action designated by the commission, including
reinstatement of employees with or without back pay, to effectuate the
policies of this chapter.
(b)  The order may require the person to make periodic reports showing the
extent to which it has complied with the order.
(c)  If, upon all the testimony taken, the board determines that no person
named in the complaint has engaged in or is engaging in any unfair labor
practice, the board shall state its findings of fact and shall issue an order
dismissing the complaint.
(5) (a)  The board may petition the district court to enforce the order and
for appropriate temporary relief or for a restraining order.
(b)  The board shall certify and file in the court:
(i)  a transcript of the entire record in the proceeding;
(ii)  the pleadings and testimony upon which the order was entered; and
(iii)  the findings and order of the board.
(c)  When the petition is filed, the board shall serve notice on all parties
to the action.
(d)  Upon filing of the petition, the court has jurisdiction of the proceeding
and of the question to be determined.
(e)  The court may grant temporary relief or a restraining order, and, based
upon the pleadings, testimony, and proceedings set forth in the transcript,
order that the board's order be enforced, modified, or set aside in whole or
in part.
(f)  The court may not consider any objection that was not presented before
the board, its member, agent, or agency, unless the failure or neglect to urge
the objection is excused because of extraordinary circumstances.
(g)  The board's findings of fact, if supported by evidence, are conclusive.
(h) (i)  If either party applies to the court for leave to adduce additional
evidence, and shows to the satisfaction of the court that the additional
evidence is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to
adduce the evidence in the hearing before the board, its member, agent, or
agency, the court may order additional evidence to be taken before the board,
its member, agent, or agency, and to be made part of the transcript.
(ii)  The board may modify its findings as to the facts, or make new findings,
because of the additional evidence taken and filed.
(iii)  The board shall file the modified or new findings, which, if supported
by evidence, are conclusive, and shall file its recommendations, if any, for
the modification or setting aside of its original order.
