34-20-11.   Hearings and investigations -- Power of board -- Witnesses --
Procedure.
For the purpose of all hearings and investigations, which, in the opinion of
the board, are necessary and proper for the exercise of the powers vested in
it by Sections 34-20-9 and 34-20-10:
(1)  The board, or its duly authorized agents or agencies, shall at all
reasonable times have access to, for the purpose of examination, and the right
to copy, any evidence of any person being investigated or proceeded against
that relates to any matter under investigation or in question.  Any member of
the board shall have power to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of any evidence that relates to any
matter under investigation or in question, before the board, its member,
agent, or agency conducting the hearing or investigation.  Any member of the
board, or any agent or agency designated by the board, for these purposes, may
administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive evidence.
Attendance of witnesses and the production of evidence may be required from
any place in the state at any duly designated place of hearing.
(2)  In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to any person,
any district court of Utah within the jurisdiction of which the inquiry is
carried on or within the jurisdiction of which the person guilty of contumacy
or refusal to obey is found or resides or transacts business upon application
by the board shall have jurisdiction to issue to the person an order requiring
the person to appear before the board, its member, agent, or agency, to
produce evidence if so ordered, or to give testimony touching the matter under
investigation or in question; and any failure to obey the order of the court
may be punished by the court as a contempt.
(3) In the event a witness asserts a privilege against self-incrimination,
testimony and evidence from the witness may be compelled pursuant to Title 77,
Chapter 22b, Grants of Immunity.
(4)  Complaints, orders, and other processes and papers of the board, its
member, agent, or agency, may be served either personally, by certified or
registered mail, by telegraph, or by leaving a copy at the principal office or
place of business of the person required to be served.  The verified return by
the individual serving the documents setting forth the manner of the service
shall be proof of the service, and the return post office receipt or telegram
receipt when certified or registered and mailed or telegraphed shall be proof
of service.  Witnesses summoned before the board, its member, agent, or
agency, shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the
courts of the state, and witnesses whose depositions are taken and the persons
taking them shall be entitled to the same fees paid for the same services in
the courts of the state.
(5) All departments and agencies of the state, when directed by the governor,
shall furnish to the board, upon its request, all records, papers, and
information in their possession relating to any matter before the board.
