4-12-2.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Adulterated commercial feed" means any commercial feed:
(a) (i)  that contains any poisonous or deleterious substance that may render
it injurious to health;
(ii)  that contains any added poisonous, added deleterious, or added
nonnutritive substance that is unsafe within the meaning of 21 U.S.C. Sec.
346, other than a pesticide chemical in or on a raw agricultural commodity or
a food additive;
(iii)  that contains any food additive or color additive that is unsafe within
the meaning of 21 U.S.C. Sec. 348 or 379e;
(iv)  that contains a pesticide chemical in or on a raw agricultural commodity
which is unsafe within the meaning of 21 U.S.C. Sec. 346a unless it is used in
or on the raw agricultural commodity in conformity with an exemption or
tolerance prescribed under 21 U.S.C. Sec. 346a and is subjected to processing
such as canning, cooking, freezing, dehydrating, or milling, so that the
residue, if any, of the pesticide chemical in or on such processed feed is
removed to the extent possible through good manufacturing practices as
prescribed by rules of the department so that the concentration of the residue
in the processed feed is not greater than the tolerance prescribed for the raw
agricultural commodity in 21 U.S.C. Sec. 346a;
(v)  that contains viable weed seeds in amounts exceeding limits established
by rule of the department; or
(vi)  that contains a drug that does not conform to good manufacturing
practice as prescribed by federal regulations promulgated under authority of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. Sec. 301 et seq., for
medicated feed premixes and for medicated feeds unless the department
determines that such regulations are not appropriate to the conditions that
exist in this state; or
(b)  that has a valuable constituent omitted or abstracted from it, in whole
or in part, or its composition or quality falls below or differs from that
represented on its label or in labeling.
(2)  "Brand name" means any word, name, symbol, or device that identifies the
distributor or registrant of a commercial feed.
(3)  "Commercial feed" means all materials, except unadulterated whole unmixed
seeds or unadulterated physically altered entire unmixed seeds, that are
distributed for use as feed or for mixing in feed; provided, that the
department may exempt from this definition by rule, or from specific sections
of this chapter, commodities such as hay, straw, stover, silage, cobs, husks,
hulls, and individual chemical compounds or substances if the commodities,
compounds, or substances are not inter-mixed or mixed with other materials,
and are not adulterated within the meaning of Subsection (1)(a).
(4)  "Customer-formula feed" means commercial feed that consists of a mixture
of commercial feeds or feed ingredients manufactured according to the specific
instructions of the final purchaser.
(5)  "Distribute" means to:
(a)  offer for sale, sell, exchange, or barter commercial feed; or
(b)  supply, furnish, or otherwise provide commercial feed to a contract
feeder.
(6)  "Drug" means any article intended for use in the diagnosis, cure,
mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in animals other than man and
articles other than feed intended to affect the structure or any function of
the animal body.
(7)  "Feed ingredient" means each constituent material in a commercial feed.
(8)  "Label" means any written, printed, or graphic matter upon or
accompanying a commercial feed.
(9)  "Manufacture" means to grind, mix, blend, or otherwise process a
commercial feed for distribution.
(10)  "Mineral feed" means a commercial feed intended to supply primarily
mineral elements or inorganic nutrients.
(11)  "Misbranded" means any commercial feed, whether in a container or in
bulk, that bears a label that is false or misleading in any particular, or
that bears a label that does not strictly conform to the labeling requirements
of Section 4-12-5.
(12)  "Official sample" means a sample of commercial feed taken by the
department and designated as "official."
(13)  "Percent" or "percentage" means percentage by weight.
(14)  "Ton" means a net weight of two thousand pounds avoirdupois.
