4-12-4.   Distribution of commercial and customer-formula feed --
Registration or permit required -- Application -- Fees -- Expiration --
Renewal.
(1)  No person may distribute a commercial feed in this state which is not
registered with the department.  Application for registration shall be made to
the department upon forms prescribed and furnished by it accompanied with an
annual registration fee, determined by the department pursuant to Subsection
4-2-2(2), for each brand name of commercial feed registered.  Upon receipt of
a proper application and payment of the appropriate fee, the commissioner
shall issue a registration to the applicant allowing the applicant to
distribute the registered commercial feed in this state through December 31 of
the year in which the registration is issued, subject to suspension or
revocation for cause.
(2)  A person who distributes customer-formula feed is not required to
register such feed, but is required to obtain a permit from the department
before distribution.  Application for a customer-formula feed distribution
permit shall be made to the department upon forms prescribed and furnished by
it accompanied with an annual permit fee determined by the department pursuant
to Subsection 4-2-2(2). Upon receipt by the department of a proper application
and payment of the appropriate fee as prescribed by the department, the
commissioner shall issue a permit to the applicant allowing the applicant to
distribute customer-formula feed in this state through December 31 of the year
in which the permit is issued, subject to suspension or revocation for cause.
(3)  Each registration is renewable for a period of one year upon the payment
of an annual registration renewal fee in an amount equal to the current
applicable original registration fee.  Each renewal fee shall be paid on or
before December 31 of each year.
(4)  A customer-formula feed permit is renewable for a period of one year upon
the payment of an annual permit renewal fee in an amount equal to the current
applicable original permit fee.  Each permit renewal fee shall be paid on or
before December 31 of each year.
