4-12-7.   Suspension or revocation authorized -- Refusal to register or issue permit authorized -- Grounds -- Stop sale, use, or removal order authorized -- Court action -- Procedure -- Costs.

(1)  The department may suspend or revoke the registration or permit, respectively, of any brand name of commercial feed or customer-formula feed, or refuse to register or issue a permit for any brand name or product of commercial feed, upon satisfactory evidence that the registrant or permittee has used fraudulent or deceptive practices in the registration of a commercial feed or in the issuance of a permit, or in its distribution in this state.

(2)  The department may issue a "stop sale, use, or removal order" to the distributor or owner of any designated commercial feed or lot of commercial feed which it finds or has reason to believe is misbranded, adulterated, or is otherwise in violation of this chapter. The order shall be in writing and no commercial feed subject to it shall be moved, offered, or exposed for sale, except upon subsequent written release by the department. Before a release is issued, the department may require the distributor or owner of the "stopped" commercial feed or lot to pay the expense incurred by the department in connection with the withdrawal of the product from the market.

(3)  The department is authorized in a court of competent jurisdiction to seek an order of seizure or condemnation of a commercial feed which violates this chapter or, upon proper grounds, to obtain a temporary restraining order or permanent injunction to prevent the violation of this chapter. No bond shall be required of the department in an injunctive proceeding brought under this section.

(4)  If condemnation is ordered, the commercial feed shall be disposed of as the court directs; provided, that in no event shall it order condemnation without giving the registrant or other person an opportunity to apply to the court for permission to relabel, reprocess, or otherwise bring the commercial feed into conformance, or for permission to remove it from the state.

(5)  If the court orders condemnation, court costs, fees, storage, and other costs shall be awarded against the claimant of the commercial feed.

