77-18-10.   Petition -- Expungement of records of arrest, investigation, and
detention -- Eligibility conditions -- No filing fee.
(1)  A person who has been arrested with or without a warrant may petition the
court in which the proceeding occurred or, if there were no court proceedings,
any court in the jurisdiction where the arrest occurred, for an order
expunging any and all records of arrest, investigation, and detention which
may have been made in the case, subject to the following conditions:
(a)  at least 30 days have passed since the arrest for which expungement is
sought;
(b)  there have been no intervening arrests; and
(c)  one of the following occurred:
(i)  the person was released without the filing of formal charges;
(ii)  proceedings against the person were dismissed;
(iii)  the person was discharged without a conviction and no charges were
refiled within 30 days;
(iv)  the record of any proceedings against the person has been sealed; or
(v)  the person was acquitted at trial.
(2) (a)  A person seeking expungement under Subsection (1) may petition the
court for expungement before the expiration of the 30 days required by
Subsection (1)(a) if he believes extraordinary circumstances exist and the
court orders the division to proceed with the eligibility process.
(b)  A court may, with the receipt of a certificate of eligibility, order
expungement if the court finds that the petitioner is eligible for relief
under this subsection and in the interest of justice the order should be
issued prior to the expiration of the 30-day period required by Subsection
(1)(a).
(3)  The petitioner seeking expungement under Subsection (1)(c)(i), (ii),
(iii), or (iv) shall file a certificate of eligibility issued by the division
to be reviewed by the prosecuting attorney and the court prior to issuing an
order granting the expungement.
(4)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a), a petitioner seeking expungement under
Subsection (1)(c)(v), shall be issued a certificate of eligibility by the
division on an expedited basis unless the petitioner has had an intervening
arrest.  The certificate of eligibility is to be reviewed by the prosecuting
attorney and the court prior to issuing an order to grant the expungement.
(5)  If the court finds that the petitioner is eligible for relief under this
section, it shall issue an order granting the expungement.
(6)  No filing fees or other administrative charges shall be assessed against
a successful petitioner under this section.
(7)  As provided in Subsection 78A-2-301(1)(i), there is no fee for a petition
filed under Subsection (2).
(8)  A person who has received expungement of an arrest under this section may
respond to any inquiry as though the arrest did not occur, unless otherwise
provided by law.
