77-18-11.   Petition -- Expungement of conviction -- Certificate of
eligibility -- Fee -- Notice -- Written evaluation -- Objections -- Hearing.
(1) (a)  A person convicted of a crime may petition the convicting court for
an expungement of the record of conviction as provided in this section.
(b)  If a person has received a pardon from the Utah Board of Pardons and
Parole, the person is entitled to an expungement of all pardoned crimes,
subject to the exceptions under Subsection 77-18-12(1)(a).
(2) (a)  The court shall require receipt of a certificate of eligibility
issued by the division under Section 77-18-12.
(b)  The fee for each certificate of eligibility is $25.  This fee remains in
effect until changed by the division through the process under Section
63J-1-504.
(c)  Funds generated under Subsection (2)(b) shall be deposited in the General
Fund as a dedicated credit by the department to cover the costs incurred in
providing the information.
(3)  The petition and certificate of eligibility shall be filed with the court
and served upon the prosecuting attorney and the Department of Corrections.
(4)  A victim shall receive notice of a petition for expungement if, prior to
the entry of an expungement order, the victim or, in the case of a minor or a
person who is incapacitated or deceased, the victim's next of kin or
authorized representative, submits a written and signed request for notice to
the office of the Department of Corrections in the judicial district in which
the crime occurred or judgment was entered.
(5)  The Department of Corrections shall serve notice of the expungement
request by first-class mail to the victim at the most recent address of record
on file with the department.  The notice shall include a copy of the petition,
certificate of eligibility, and statutes and rules applicable to the petition.
(6)  The court in its discretion may request a written evaluation by Adult
Parole and Probation of the Department of Corrections.
(a)  The evaluation shall include a recommendation concerning the petition for
expungement.
(b)  If expungement is recommended, the evaluation shall include certification
that the petitioner has completed all requirements of sentencing and probation
or parole and state any rationale that would support or refute consideration
for expungement.
(c)  The conclusions and recommendations contained in the evaluation shall be
provided to the petitioner and the prosecuting attorney.
(7)  If the prosecuting attorney or a victim submits a written objection to
the court concerning the petition within 30 days after service of the notice,
or if the petitioner objects to the conclusions and recommendations in the
evaluation within 15 days after receipt of the conclusions and
recommendations, the court shall set a date for a hearing and notify the
prosecuting attorney for the jurisdiction, the petitioner, and the victim of
the date set for the hearing.
(8)  Any person who has relevant information about the petitioner may testify
at the hearing.
(9)  The prosecuting attorney may respond to the court with a recommendation
or objection within 30 days.
(10)  If an objection is not received under Subsection (7), the expungement
may be granted without a hearing.
(11)  A court may not expunge a conviction of:
(a)  a capital felony;
(b)  a first degree felony;
(c)  a second degree forcible felony;
(d)  any sexual act against a minor; or
(e)  an offense for which a certificate of eligibility may not be issued under
Section 77-18-12.
