77-18-14.   Order to expunge -- Distribution of order -- Redaction --
Receipt of order -- Administrative proceedings -- Division requirements.
(1)  Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, upon approval of a petition
for expungement, the court shall enter an order to expunge all records in the
petitioner's case which are in the custody of that court or in the custody of
any other court, agency, or official.
(2)  The petitioner shall be responsible for service of the order of
expungement to all affected state, county, and local entities, agencies, and
officials including the court, arresting agency, booking agency, Department of
Corrections, and the division.
(3)  The division shall forward a copy of the expungement order to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
(4)  In order to avoid destruction or sealing of the records in whole or in
part, any state, county, or local entity, agency, or official receiving an
expungement order shall only expunge all references to the petitioner's name.
The petitioner, based on good cause, may petition the court to expunge the
records in whole or in part.
(5)  No state, county, or local entity, agency, or official may, after
receiving service of an expungement order, divulge information contained in
the expunged portion of the record.
(6) (a)  An order of expungement shall not restrict an agency's use or
dissemination of records in its ordinary course of business until the agency
has received service of a copy of the order.
(b)  Any action taken by an agency after issuance of the order but prior to
the agency's receipt of a copy of the order may not be invalidated by the
order.
(7)  An order of expungement may not:
(a)  terminate or invalidate any pending administrative proceedings or actions
of which the petitioner had notice according to the records of the
administrative body prior to issuance of the expungement order;
(b)  affect the enforcement of any order or findings issued by an
administrative body pursuant to its lawful authority prior to issuance of the
expungement order; or
(c)  remove any evidence relating to the petitioner including records of
arrest, which the administrative body has used or may use in these
proceedings.
(8)  The division shall provide the petitioner with a list of the agencies
affected by this subsection with clear written directions regarding the
requirements of this section.
(9)  If, after obtaining an expungement, the petitioner is charged with a
felony, the state may petition the court to open the expunged records upon a
showing of good cause.
