78B-3-403.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Audiologist" means a person licensed to practice audiology under Title
58, Chapter 41, Speech-language Pathology and Audiology Licensing Act.
(2)  "Certified social worker" means a person licensed to practice as a
certified social worker under Section 58-60-205.
(3)  "Chiropractic physician" means a person licensed to practice chiropractic
under Title 58, Chapter 73, Chiropractic Physician Practice Act.
(4)  "Clinical social worker" means a person licensed to practice as a
clinical social worker under Section 58-60-205.
(5)  "Commissioner" means the commissioner of insurance as provided in Section
31A-2-102.
(6)  "Dental hygienist" means a person licensed to engage in the practice of
dental hygiene as defined in Section 58-69-102.
(7)  "Dentist" means a person licensed to engage in the practice of dentistry
as defined in Section 58-69-102.
(8)  "Division" means the Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing
created in Section 58-1-103.
(9)  "Future damages" includes a judgment creditor's damages for future
medical treatment, care or custody, loss of future earnings, loss of bodily
function, or future pain and suffering.
(10)  "Health care" means any act or treatment performed or furnished, or
which should have been performed or furnished, by any health care provider
for, to, or on behalf of a patient during the patient's medical care,
treatment, or confinement.
(11)  "Health care facility" means general acute hospitals, specialty
hospitals, home health agencies, hospices, nursing care facilities, assisted
living facilities, birthing centers, ambulatory surgical facilities, small
health care facilities, health care facilities owned or operated by health
maintenance organizations, and end stage renal disease facilities.
(12)  "Health care provider" includes any person, partnership, association,
corporation, or other facility or institution who causes to be rendered or who
renders health care or professional services as a hospital, health care
facility, physician, registered nurse, licensed practical nurse, nurse-
midwife, licensed Direct-entry midwife, dentist, dental hygienist,
optometrist, clinical laboratory technologist, pharmacist, physical therapist,
physical therapist assistant, podiatric physician, psychologist, chiropractic
physician, naturopathic physician, osteopathic physician, osteopathic
physician and surgeon, audiologist, speech-language pathologist, clinical
social worker, certified social worker, social service worker, marriage and
family counselor, practitioner of obstetrics, or others rendering similar care
and services relating to or arising out of the health needs of persons or
groups of persons and officers, employees, or agents of any of the above
acting in the course and scope of their employment.
(13)  "Hospital" means a public or private institution licensed under Title
26, Chapter 21, Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act.
(14)  "Licensed Direct-entry midwife" means a person licensed under the
Direct-entry Midwife Act to engage in the practice of direct-entry midwifery
as defined in Section 58-77-102.
(15)  "Licensed practical nurse" means a person licensed to practice as a
licensed practical nurse as provided in Section 58-31b-301.
(16)  "Malpractice action against a health care provider" means any action
against a health care provider, whether in contract, tort, breach of warranty,
wrongful death, or otherwise, based upon alleged personal injuries relating to
or arising out of health care rendered or which should have been rendered by
the health care provider.
(17)  "Marriage and family therapist" means a person licensed to practice as a
marriage therapist or family therapist under Sections 58-60-305 and 58-60-405.
(18)  "Naturopathic physician" means a person licensed to engage in the
practice of naturopathic medicine as defined in Section 58-71-102.
(19)  "Nurse-midwife" means a person licensed to engage in practice as a nurse
midwife under Section 58-44a-301.
(20)  "Optometrist" means a person licensed to practice optometry under Title
58, Chapter 16a, Utah Optometry Practice Act.
(21)  "Osteopathic physician" means a person licensed to practice osteopathy
under Title 58, Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act.
(22)  "Patient" means a person who is under the care of a health care
provider, under a contract, express or implied.
(23)  "Periodic payments" means the payment of money or delivery of other
property to a judgment creditor at intervals ordered by the court.
(24)  "Pharmacist" means a person licensed to practice pharmacy as provided in
Section 58-17b-301.
(25)  "Physical therapist" means a person licensed to practice physical
therapy under Title 58, Chapter 24b, Physical Therapy Practice Act.
(26)  "Physical therapist assistant" means a person licensed to practice
physical therapy, within the scope of a physical therapist assistant license,
under Title 58, Chapter 24b, Physical Therapy Practice Act.
(27)  "Physician" means a person licensed to practice medicine and surgery
under Title 58, Chapter 67, Utah Medical Practice Act.
(28)  "Podiatric physician" means a person licensed to practice podiatry under
Title 58, Chapter 5a, Podiatric Physician Licensing Act.
(29)  "Practitioner of obstetrics" means a person licensed to practice as a
physician in this state under Title 58, Chapter 67, Utah Medical Practice Act,
or under Title 58, Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act.
(30)  "Psychologist" means a person licensed under Title 58, Chapter 61,
Psychologist Licensing Act, to engage in the practice of psychology as defined
in Section 58-61-102.
(31)  "Registered nurse" means a person licensed to practice professional
nursing as provided in Section 58-31b-301.
(32)  "Relative" means a patient's spouse, parent, grandparent, stepfather,
stepmother, child, grandchild, brother, sister, half brother, half sister, or
spouse's parents.  The term includes relationships that are created as a
result of adoption.
(33)  "Representative" means the spouse, parent, guardian, trustee, attorney-
in-fact, person designated to make decisions on behalf of a patient under a
medical power of attorney, or other legal agent of the patient.
(34)  "Social service worker" means a person licensed to practice as a social
service worker under Section 58-60-205.
(35)  "Speech-language pathologist" means a person licensed to practice
speech-language pathology under Title 58, Chapter 41, Speech-language
Pathology and Audiology Licensing Act.
(36)  "Tort" means any legal wrong, breach of duty, or negligent or unlawful
act or omission proximately causing injury or damage to another.
(37)  "Unanticipated outcome" means the outcome of a medical treatment or
procedure that differs from an expected result.
