78B-3-602.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Harm" means:

(a)  personal injury, death, or illness, except an injury, death, or illness that is a basis for a claim under either a state or federal workmen's compensation act by an employee of a person liable pursuant to Section 78B-3-603;

(b)  damage to, destruction of, or loss of the use of property other than property at the situs of and used in connection with the activity giving rise to a nuclear incident;

(c)  economic loss due to:

(i)  damage to or loss of the use of property; or

(ii)  environmental degradation; or

(d)  expenses reasonably incurred by the state, its political subdivisions, or the agencies of either in protecting the public health and safety and the environment from a nuclear incident or the imminent danger of a nuclear incident, including, but not limited to, precautionary evacuations, emergency response measures, and, after reasonable opportunity for performance of cleanup measures by persons liable pursuant to Section 78B-3-603, decontamination or other clean-up measures.  These expenses must be documented by the state, its political subdivisions, or agencies of either.

(2)  "Nuclear incident" means an incident which does not arise from an act of war and involves the release of nuclear material which results in personal injury, loss of use of property, or damage due to the radioactive, toxic, explosive, or other hazardous properties of the nuclear material.

(3)  "Nuclear material" means radioactive material used or handled in connection with:

(a)  a utilization facility or production facility licensed by the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission in accordance with 42 U.S.C. Secs. 2133 or 2134;

(b)  a utilization or production facility constructed or operated under a contract for the benefit of the United States where there is a risk of a substantial nuclear incident as determined by the United States Department of Energy or the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; or

(c)  disposal, storage, and other activities undertaken pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. Secs. 10101 through 10225.

(4)  "Radioactive material" means:

(a)  source material as defined in 42 U.S.C. Sec. 2014 (z);

(b)  special nuclear material as defined in 42 U.S.C. Sec. 2014 (aa); or

(c)  by-product material as defined in 42 U.S.C. Sec. 2014 (e).

