7-7-2.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Association" means a mutual or capital stock savings association, a
savings and loan association, a mutual or capital stock savings bank, or a
building and loan association subject to the provisions of this chapter,
including all out-of-state associations qualified to do business in this
state.
(2)  "Federal association" means a savings association, a savings and loan
association, or a savings bank, chartered by the Office of Thrift Supervision
or successor federal agency.
(3)  "Impaired condition" means a condition in which the assets of an
association in the aggregate do not have a fair value equal to the aggregate
amount of liabilities of the association to its creditors, including the
holders of its savings accounts and all other persons.
(4)  "Insured association" means an association the deposit accounts of which
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any successor
agency of the federal government.
(5)  "Liquid assets" means cash on hand and cash on deposit in federal home
loan banks, federal reserve banks, state banks performing similar reserve
functions, or in commercial banks, which cash is withdrawable upon not more
than 30 days notice and which is not pledged as security for indebtedness.
Any deposits in a financial institution under the control or in the possession
of any supervisory authority shall not be considered as liquid assets.  Liquid
assets also means obligations of, or obligations that are fully guaranteed as
to principal and interest by, the United States, the Federal National Mortgage
Association, the Government National Mortgage Association, any federal home
loan bank, or this state, which obligations will mature in five years or less,
and any other assets readily convertible into cash.
(6)  "Out-of-state association" means an association whose home state is not
Utah.
(7)  "Real estate loan" means any loan or other obligation secured by a lien
on real estate in any state held in fee or in a leasehold, and any transaction
out of which a lien or its equivalent is created against real estate,
including the purchase of real estate in fee by an association and the
concurrent or immediate sale of the real estate on installment contract.
(8)  "Savings liability" means the aggregate amount of savings accounts of
depositors, including earnings credited to those accounts, less redemptions
and withdrawals.
(9)  "Service organization" means an organization substantially all the
activities of which consist of originating, purchasing, selling, or servicing
loans and participating interests therein, or clerical, bookkeeping,
accounting, statistical, or other similar functions or any combination thereof
performed primarily for financial institutions, plus such other activities as
the commissioner may approve.
(10)  "Supervisor" means the supervisor of savings and loan associations.
(11)  "Surplus" means the aggregate amount of the undistributed net income of
an association held as undivided profits or unallocated reserves for general
corporate purposes, and any paid-in surplus held by an association.
(12)  "Withdrawal value" means the amount credited to a savings account less
lawful deductions, as shown by the records of the association.
