7-7-4.   Mutual association -- Chair of incorporators -- Surety bond or
escrow -- Capital requirements -- Expense fund -- Organization meeting.
(1)  The incorporators of a mutual association shall appoint one of their
number as chair of the incorporators.  This  chair shall procure from a surety
company or other surety acceptable to the commissioner, a surety bond in an
amount at least equal to the amount subscribed by the incorporators plus the
expense fund described in Subsection (2).  This bond shall name the
commissioner as obligee and shall be delivered to him.  It shall assure the
safekeeping of the funds described, their delivery to the association after
the issuance of the certificate of authority and after the bonding of the
officers, and, in the event of the failure to complete organization, the
return of the amounts collected to the respective subscribers or their
assigns, less reasonable expense which shall be deducted from the expense
fund.  The required surety may be waived by the commissioner if the funds are
held in escrow so as to provide similar assurance with regard to the funds.
Before a certificate of authority is issued, the incorporators shall pay in
cash, to the chairman, as subscriptions to the savings accounts of the
proposed association, including that part of the original subscription paid by
the chairman.  The minimum required capital shall be prescribed by the
commissioner by rule.  These capital requirements may not be greater than
those required by the  Office of Thrift Supervision or successor agency for
the formation of a federally chartered mutual association.
(2)  The incorporators, in addition to their subscriptions to savings
accounts, shall create an expense fund in an amount not less than 25% of the
minimum amount of savings account subscriptions required to be paid under this
chapter.  From this expense fund the expense of organizing the association and
its operating expenses may be paid until such time as its net income is
sufficient to pay such earnings as may be declared and paid or credited to its
savings account holders from sources available for payment of earnings.  The
incorporators and others, before a certificate of authority is issued, shall
deposit to the credit of the chairman of the incorporators in cash the amount
of the expense fund.  The amounts contributed to the expense fund by the
incorporators and others shall not constitute a liability of the association
except as provided by this chapter.
(3)  Contributions made by the incorporators and others to the expense fund
may be repaid pro rata to the contributors from the net income of the
association after provision for statutory reserves and declaration of earnings
of not less than 2% on savings accounts.  If an association is liquidated
before contributions to the expense fund have been repaid, any contributions
to the expense fund remaining unexpended, after the payment of expenses of
liquidation, all creditors, and the withdrawal value of all savings accounts,
shall be repaid to the contributors pro rata.  The books of the association
shall reflect the expense fund.  Contributors to the expense fund shall at the
times earnings regularly are distributed to savings account holders be paid
earnings on the amounts paid in by them and for that purpose the contributions
shall in all respects be considered as savings accounts of the association.
(4)  Within 90 days after the corporate existence of an association begins,
the directors of the association shall hold an organization meeting and shall
adopt bylaws and elect officers under this chapter.  At the organization
meeting the directors shall take such other action as is appropriate in
connection with beginning the transaction of business by the association.  The
commissioner may extend by order the time within which the organization
meeting shall be held.
