7-7-10.   Meetings of mutual association members -- Voting -- Notice.

(1) (a)  An annual meeting of the members of each mutual association shall be held at the time and place fixed in the bylaws of the association.

(b)  Special meetings may be called as provided in the bylaws.

(2) (a)  The members entitled to vote at any meeting of the members shall be those who are members of record at the end of the calendar month next preceding the date of the meeting of members, except those who have ceased to be members.

(b)  The number of votes that a member is entitled to cast shall be determined in accordance with the books on the date determinative of entitlement to vote.

(3)  In the determination of all questions requiring action by the members, each member shall be entitled to cast:

(a)  one vote; and

(b)  any additional vote that the member may cast under the bylaws of the association.

(4) (a) (i)  Subject to Subsection (4)(a)(ii), at any meeting of the members, voting may be:

(A)  in person; or

(B)  by proxy.

(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(a)(i), a proxy is not eligible to be voted at any meeting unless the proxy has been filed with the secretary of the association, for verification, at least five days before the date of the meeting.

(b)  Every proxy shall:

(i)  be in writing;

(ii)  be signed by the member or the member's duly authorized attorney in fact; and

(iii)  continue in force from year to year:

(A)  when filed with the secretary;

(B)  if so specified in the proxy; and

(C)  until:

(I)  revoked by a writing duly delivered to the secretary; or

(II)  superseded by subsequent proxies.

(5) (a)  At an annual meeting or at any special meeting of the members, any number of members present in person or by proxy eligible to be voted constitutes a quorum.

(b)  A majority of all votes cast at any meeting of members shall determine any question unless this chapter specifically provides otherwise.

(6) (a)  No notice of annual meetings of members need be given to members.

(b)  Subject to Subsection (6)(c), notice of each special meeting of members shall:

(i)  state:

(A)  the purpose for which the meeting is called;

(B)  the place of the meeting; and

(C)  the time when the meeting shall convene; and

(ii) (A)  be published:

(I)  once a week for two consecutive calendar weeks (in each instance, on any day of the week) before the date on which the special meeting shall convene, in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the home office of the association is located; and

(II)  as required in Section 45-1-101 for two calendar weeks before the date on which the special meeting shall convene; and

(B)  be posted in a conspicuous place in all offices of the association during the 30 days immediately preceding the date on which the special meeting convenes.

(c)  No notice need be given of a meeting if all the members entitled to vote, vote in favor of an action at the meeting of the members.



Amended by Chapter 388, 2009 General Session

