7-7-15.   Fiduciary relationship of directors and officers to association --
Disclosure requirements -- Prohibitions -- Violations as misdemeanors.
(1) (a)  Directors and officers occupy fiduciary relationships to the
association of which they are directors or officers.  No director or officer
may engage or participate, directly or indirectly, in any business or
transaction conducted on behalf of or involving the association, which would
result in a conflict of his own personal interests with those of the
association which he serves, unless:
(i)  the business or transactions are conducted in good faith and are honest,
fair, and reasonable to the association;
(ii)  a full disclosure of the business or transactions and the nature of the
director's or officer's interest is made to the board of directors;
(iii)  the business or transactions are approved in good faith by the board of
directors, any interested director abstaining; and
(iv)  the business or transactions do not represent a breach of the officer's
or director's fiduciary duty and are not fraudulent, illegal, or ultra vires.
(b)  Without limitation by any of the specific provisions of this section, the
supervisor may require the disclosure by directors, officers and employees of
their personal interest, direct or indirect, in any business or transaction on
behalf of or involving the association and of their control of or active
participation in enterprises having activities related to the business of the
association.
(2)  The following express restrictions governing the conduct of directors and
officers of associations shall apply, but shall not be construed in any manner
as excusing those persons from the observance of any other aspect of the
general fiduciary duty owed by them to the association which they serve:
(a)  No officer or director of an association may, without the prior written
approval of the commissioner, serve as a director or officer of another
savings institution, the principal office of which is located in the same
community as an office of the association, unless he served as director or
officer of both institutions before the effective date of this act.
(b)  A director may not receive remuneration as a director, except reasonable
fees for service as a director or for service as a member of a committee of
directors.  This subsection does not prohibit or in any way limit any right of
a director who is also an officer, employee, or attorney for the association
to receive compensation for service as an officer, employee, or attorney.
(c)  No director or officer may have any interest, directly or indirectly, in
the proceeds of a loan or investment or of a purchase or sale made by the
association, unless the loan, investment, purchase, or sale is authorized
expressly by resolution of the board of directors, and unless the resolution
is approved by vote of at least two-thirds of the directors authorized of the
association, any interested director taking no part in the vote.
(d)  No director or officer may have any interest, direct or indirect, in the
purchase at less than its face value of any evidence of a savings account,
deposit or other indebtedness issued by the association.
(e)  An association or a director, officer, or employee of an association may
not require, as a condition to the granting of any loan or the extension of
any other service by the association, that the borrower or any other person
undertake a contract of insurance or any other agreement or understanding with
respect to the furnishing of any other goods or services, with any specific
company, agency, or individual.
(f)  No officer or director acting as proxy for a member or stockholder of an
association may exercise, transfer, or delegate the proxy vote or votes in
consideration of a private benefit or advantage, direct or indirect, accruing
to himself, nor may he surrender control or pass his office to any other for
any consideration of a private benefit or advantage, direct or indirect.  The
voting rights of members and directors may not be the subject of sale, barter,
exchange, or similar transaction, either directly or indirectly.  Any officer
or director who violates this subsection shall be held accountable to the
association for any increment.
(g)  No director or officer may solicit, accept, or agree to accept, directly
or indirectly, from any person other than the association any gratuity,
compensation or other personal benefit for any action taken by the association
or for endeavoring to procure any such action.
(h)  Any person violating any of the specific prohibitions set forth in
Subsections (a) through (g) is guilty of a class C misdemeanor.
