7-7-22.   Savings accounts -- Liabilities -- Opening -- Relationship between
association and account holder -- Earnings -- Preferences -- Types of
accounts.
The savings liability of an association is not limited, but shall consist only
of the aggregate amount of its savings accounts, plus earnings credited to
those accounts, less redemption and withdrawal payments. Except as limited by
the board of directors from time to time, an account holder may make additions
to his savings accounts in such amounts and at such times as he may elect.
Savings accounts may be opened for cash or property in which the association
is authorized to invest, and, in the absence of fraud in a transaction, the
value of the property taken in payment therefor as determined by the board of
directors shall be conclusive. The relationship between an association and its
account holders is that of debtor and creditor. Except as may be provided in
the rules of the commissioner governing conversions to capital stock
associations, no member of a mutual association shall be responsible for any
losses which its savings liability is not sufficient to satisfy, and no
savings account shall be subject to assessment, nor shall the holder thereof
be liable for any unpaid installments on his account. Earnings on savings
accounts shall be fixed or otherwise declared in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Except as provided in Section 7-7-24, no
association shall prefer one of its savings accounts in an account
classification over any other savings account in the same classification as to
the right to participate in earnings. No preference between savings account
members in a mutual association shall be created with respect to the
distribution of assets upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution,
or winding up of such association. An association may issue, sell, negotiate,
and advertise for issuance or sale, any type of savings account not prohibited
by or inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or other applicable
law.
