7-7-24.   Earnings on savings accounts.
An association may pay earnings on its savings accounts from sources available
for payment of earnings at such rate and for such times as shall be determined
by resolution of its board of directors. All savings account holders shall
participate equally in earnings pro rata to the withdrawal value of their
respective accounts, except that an association may classify its savings
accounts according to the character, amount, duration, regularity of additions
thereto, or, if the association is operating in more than one state, the state
in which the account is located. An association may pay different earnings
according to those classifications. An association may agree in advance to pay
an additional or different rate of earnings on all savings accounts in the
same account classification, and shall regulate those earnings in such manner
that each savings account in the same classification shall receive the same
ratable portion of the additional earnings. Except for accounts which shall be
classified according to a specified contractual time or notice period,
earnings shall be declared on the withdrawal value of each savings account at
the beginning of the accounting period, plus additions thereto made during the
period (less amounts previously withdrawn and noticed for withdrawal, which
for earnings purposes shall be deducted from the latest previous additions
thereto) computed at the declared rate for the time the funds have been
invested, determined as next provided. The date of investment shall be the
date of actual receipt by the association of an account or an addition to an
account, except that if the board of directors shall so determine, accounts in
one or more classifications or additions thereto received by the association
on or before a date not later than the 20th day of the month (unless the day
determined is not a business day, in which case it shall be the next
succeeding business day) shall receive earnings as if invested on the first
day of the month in which the payments were received. If the board shall make
this determination, it also shall determine that payments received after the
determination date shall either (1) receive earnings as if invested on the
first day of the next succeeding month or (2) receive earnings from the date
of actual receipt by the association. The board of directors, by resolution,
may determine that earnings may not be paid on designated savings accounts (1)
from which withdrawals may be made on demand or by negotiable and transferable
order or authorization, or (2) which have a withdrawal value of a specified
amount, or (3) which are intended to be closed within a specified period less
than 24 months from the date on which the savings account is opened, or (4)
which are established for the purpose of accumulating funds to pay taxes or
insurance premiums, or both, in connection with a loan, to the extent
permitted by the provisions of the Interest on Mortgage Loan Reserve Accounts
Act, Sections 7-17-1 through 7-17-10. The directors shall determine by
resolution the method of calculating the amount of any earnings on any savings
account classification as herein provided, and the time or times when earnings
are to be declared, paid, or credited.
