62A-11-303.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Adjudicative proceeding" means an action or proceeding of the office conducted in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.

(2)  "Administrative order" means an order that has been issued by the office, the department, or an administrative agency of another state or other comparable jurisdiction with similar authority to that of the office.

(3)  "Assistance" or "public assistance" is defined in Section 62A-11-103.

(4)  "Business day" means a day on which state offices are open for regular business.

(5)  "Child" means:

(a) a son or daughter under the age of 18 years who is not otherwise emancipated, self-supporting, married, or a member of the armed forces of the United States;

(b) a son or daughter over the age of 18 years, while enrolled in high school during the normal and expected year of graduation and not otherwise emancipated, self-supporting, married, or a member of the armed forces of the United States; or

(c)  a son or daughter of any age who is incapacitated from earning a living and is without sufficient means.

(6)  "Child support" is defined in Section 62A-11-401.

(7)  "Child support guidelines" or "guidelines" is defined in Section 78B-12-102.

(8)  "Child support order" or "support order" is defined in Section 62A-11-401.

(9)  "Child support services" or "IV-D child support services" is defined in Section 62A-11-103.

(10)  "Court order" means a judgment or order of a tribunal of appropriate jurisdiction of this state, another state, Native American tribe, the federal government, or any other comparable jurisdiction.

(11)  "Director" means the director of the Office of Recovery Services.

(12)  "Disposable earnings" is defined in Section 62A-11-103.

(13)  "High-volume automated administrative enforcement" in interstate cases means, on the request of another state, the identification by the office, through automatic data matches with financial institutions and other entities where assets may be found, of assets owned by persons who owe child support in the requesting state, and the seizure of the assets by the office, through levy or other appropriate processes.

(14)  "Income" is defined in Section 62A-11-103.

(15)  "Notice of agency action" means the notice required to commence an adjudicative proceeding in accordance with Section 63G-4-201.

(16)  "Obligee" means an individual, this state, another state, or  other comparable jurisdiction to whom a duty of child support is owed, or who is entitled to reimbursement of child support or public assistance.

(17)  "Obligor" means a person, firm, corporation, or the estate of a decedent owing a duty of support to this state, to an individual, to another state, or other corporate jurisdiction in whose behalf this state is acting.

(18)  "Office" is defined in Section 62A-11-103.

(19)  "Parent" means a natural parent or an adoptive parent of a dependent child.

(20)  "Person" includes an individual, firm, corporation, association, political subdivision, department, or office.

(21)  "Presiding officer" means a presiding officer described in Section 63G-4-103.

(22)  "Support" includes past-due, present, and future obligations established by:

(a)  a tribunal or imposed by law for the financial support, maintenance, medical, or dental care of a dependent child; and

(b)  a tribunal for the financial support of a spouse or former spouse with whom the obligor's dependent child resides if the obligor also owes a child support obligation that is being enforced by the state.

(23)  "Support debt," "past-due support," or "arrears" means the debt created by nonpayment of support.

(24)  "Tribunal" means the district court, the Department of Human Services, the Office of Recovery Services, or court or administrative agency of any state, territory, possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Native American Tribe, or other comparable domestic or foreign jurisdiction.



Amended by Chapter 3, 2008 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 382, 2008 General Session

