62A-11-304.2.   Issuance or modification of administrative order -- Compliance with court order -- Authority of office -- Stipulated agreements -- Notification requirements.

(1)  Through an adjudicative proceeding the office may issue or modify an administrative order that:

(a)  determines paternity;

(b)  determines whether an obligor owes support;

(c)  determines temporary orders of child support upon clear and convincing evidence of paternity in the form of genetic test results or other evidence;

(d)  requires an obligor to pay a specific or determinable amount of present and future support;

(e)  determines the amount of past-due support;

(f)  orders an obligor who owes past-due support and is obligated to support a child receiving public assistance to participate in appropriate work activities if the obligor is unemployed and is not otherwise incapacitated;

(g)  imposes a penalty authorized under this chapter;

(h)  determines an issue that may be specifically contested under this chapter by a party who timely files a written request for an adjudicative proceeding with the office; and

(i)  renews an administrative judgment.

(2) (a)  An abstract of a final administrative order issued under this section or a notice of judgment-lien under Section 62A-11-312.5 may be filed with the clerk of any district court.

(b)  Upon a filing under Subsection (2)(a), the clerk of the court shall:

(i)  docket the abstract or notice in the judgment docket of the court and note the time of receipt on the abstract or notice and in the judgment docket; and

(ii)  at the request of the office, place a copy of the abstract or notice in the file of a child support action involving the same parties.

(3)  If a judicial order has been issued, the office may not issue an order under Subsection (1) that is not based on the judicial order, except:

(a)  the office may establish a new obligation in those cases in which the juvenile court has ordered the parties to meet with the office to determine the support pursuant to Section 78A-6-1106; or

(b) the office may issue an order of current support in accordance with the child support guidelines if the conditions of Subsection 78B-14-207(2)(c) are met.

(4)  The office may proceed under this section in the name of this state, another state under Section 62A-11-305, any department of this state, the office, or the obligee.

(5)  The office may accept voluntary acknowledgment of a support obligation and enter into stipulated agreements providing for the issuance of an administrative order under this part.

(6)  The office may act in the name of the obligee in endorsing and cashing any drafts, checks, money orders, or other negotiable instruments received by the office for support.

(7)  The obligor shall, after a notice of agency action has been served on the obligor in accordance with Section 63G-4-201, keep the office informed of:

(a) the obligor's current address;

(b)  the name and address of current payors of income;

(c)  availability of or access to health insurance coverage; and

(d)  applicable health insurance policy information.



Amended by Chapter 3, 2008 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 382, 2008 General Session

