62A-11-320.5.   Review and adjustment of child support order in three-year
cycle -- Substantial change in circumstances not required.
(1)  If a child support order has not been issued, modified, or reviewed
within the previous three years, the office shall review a child support
order, taking into account the best interests of the child involved, if:
(a)  requested by a parent or legal guardian involved in a case receiving IV-D
services; or
(b)  there has been an assignment under Section 35A-3-108 and the office
determines that a review is appropriate.
(2)  If the office conducts a review under Subsection (1), the office shall
determine if there is a difference of 10% or more between the amount ordered
and the amount that would be required under the child support guidelines.  If
there is such a difference and the difference is not of a temporary nature,
the office shall:
(a)  with respect to a child support order issued or modified by the office,
adjust the amount to that which is provided for in the guidelines;  or
(b)  with respect to a child support order issued or modified by a court, file
a petition with the court to adjust the amount to that which is provided for
in the guidelines.
(3)  The office may use automated methods to:
(a)  collect information and conduct reviews under Subsection (2); and
(b)  identify child support orders in which there is a difference of 10% or
more between the amount of child support ordered and the amount that would be
required under the child support guidelines for review under Subsection
(1)(b).
(4) (a)  A parent or legal guardian who requests a review under Subsection
(1)(a) shall provide notice of the request to the other parent within five
days and in accordance with Section 62A-11-304.4.
(b)  If the office conducts a review under Subsections (1)(b) and (3)(b), the
office shall provide notice to the parties of:
(i)  a proposed adjustment under Subsection (2)(a); or
(ii)  a proposed petition to be filed in court under Subsection (2)(b).
(5) (a)  Within 30 days of notice being sent under Subsection (4)(a), a parent
or legal guardian may respond to a request for review filed with the office.
(b)  Within 30 days of notice being sent under Subsection (4)(b), a parent or
legal guardian may contest a proposed adjustment or petition by requesting a
review under Subsection (1)(a) and providing documentation that refutes the
adjustment or petition.
(6)  A showing of a substantial change in circumstances is not necessary for
an adjustment under this section.
