62A-11-603.   Suspension of driver license for child support delinquency --
Reinstatement.
(1)  Subject to the provisions of this section, the office may order the
suspension of a person's driver license if the person is delinquent on a child
support obligation.
(2)  Before ordering a suspension of a person's driver license, the office
shall serve the person with a "notice of intent to suspend driver license."
(3)  The notice described in Subsection (2) shall:
(a)  be personally served or served by certified mail;
(b)  except as otherwise provided in this section, comply with Title 63G,
Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act;
(c)  state the amount that the person is in arrears on the person's child
support obligation; and
(d)  state that, if the person desires to contest the suspension of the
person's driver license, the person must request an informal adjudicative
proceeding with the office within 30 days after the day on which the notice is
mailed or personally served.
(4) (a)  The office shall hold an informal adjudicative proceeding to
determine whether a person's driver license should be suspended if the person
requests a hearing within 30 days after the day on which the notice described
in Subsection (2) is mailed or personally served on the person.
(b)  The informal adjudicative proceeding described in Subsection (4)(a), and
any appeal of the decision rendered in that proceeding, shall comply with
Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(5)  Except as provided in Subsection (6), the office may order that a
person's driver license be suspended:
(a)  if, after the notice described in Subsection (2) is mailed or personally
served, the person fails to request an informal adjudicative proceeding within
the time period described in Subsection (4)(a); or
(b)  following the informal adjudicative proceeding described in Subsection
(4)(a), if:
(i)  the presiding officer finds that the person is delinquent on a child
support obligation; and
(ii)  the finding described in Subsection (5)(b)(i):
(A)  is not timely appealed; or
(B)  is upheld after a timely appeal becomes final.
(6)  The office may not order the suspension of a person's driver license if
the person:
(a)  pays the full amount that the person is in arrears on the person's child
support obligation;
(b)  subject to Subsection (8):
(i)  enters into a payment agreement with the office for the payment of the
person's current child support obligation and all arrears; and
(ii)  complies with the agreement described in Subsection (6)(b)(i) for any
initial compliance period required by the agreement;
(c)  obtains a judicial order staying enforcement of the person's child
support obligation or the amount in arrears; or
(d)  is not currently delinquent on a child support obligation.
(7)  The office shall rescind an order made by the office to suspend a driver
license if the person:
(a)  pays the full amount that the person is in arrears on the person's child
support obligation;
(b)  subject to Subsection (8):
(i)  enters into a payment agreement with the office for the payment of the
person's current child support obligation and all arrears; and
(ii)  complies with the agreement described in Subsection (7)(b)(i) for any
initial compliance period required by the agreement;
(c)  obtains a judicial order staying enforcement of the person's child
support obligation or the amount in arrears; or
(d)  is not currently delinquent on a child support obligation.
(8)  For purposes of Subsections (6)(b) and (7)(b), the office shall
diligently strive to enter into a fair and reasonable payment agreement that
takes into account the person's employment and financial ability to make
payments, provided that there is a reasonable basis to believe that the person
will comply with the agreement.
(9) (a)  If, after the office seeks to suspend a person's driver license under
this section, it is determined that the person is not delinquent, the office
shall refund to the person any noncustodial parent income withholding fee that
was collected from the person during the erroneously alleged delinquency.
(b)  Subsection (9)(a) does not apply if the person described in Subsection
(9)(a) is otherwise in arrears on a child support obligation.
(10) (a)  A person whose driver license is ordered suspended pursuant to this
section may file a request with the office, on a form provided by the office,
to have the office rescind the order of suspension if:
(i)  the person claims that, since the time of the suspension, circumstances
have changed such that the person is entitled to have the order of suspension
rescinded under Subsection (7); and
(ii)  the office has not rescinded the order of suspension.
(b)  The office shall respond, in writing, to a person described in Subsection
(10), within 10 days after the day on which the request is filed with the
office, stating whether the person is entitled to have the order of suspension
rescinded.
(c)  If the office determines, under Subsection (10)(b), that an order to
suspend a person's license should be rescinded, the office shall immediately
rescind the order.
(d)  If the office determines, under Subsection (10)(b), that an order to
suspend a person's license should not be rescinded:
(i)  the office shall, as part of the response described in Subsection
(10)(b), notify the person, in writing, of the reasons for that determination;
and
(ii)  the person described in this Subsection (10)(d) may, within 15 days
after the day on which the office sends the response described in Subsection
(10)(b), appeal the determination of the office to district court.
(e)  The office may not require that a person file the request described in
Subsection (10)(a) before the office orders that an order of suspension is
rescinded, if the office has already determined that the order of suspension
should be rescinded under Subsection (7).
(11)  The office may make rules, in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act, to:
(a)  implement the provisions of this part; and
(b)  determine when the arrears described in Subsections (6) and (7) are
considered paid.
