63G-6a-106.   Specific statutory authority -- Limitations on authority of chief procurement officer and division.

(1)  The procurement authority given to a procurement unit under the following provisions shall be retained, and shall be applied only to the extent described in those provisions:

(a)  Title 53B, State System of Higher Education;

(b)  Title 63A, Chapter 5, State Building Board - Division of Facilities Construction and Management;

(c)  Title 67, Chapter 5, Attorney General;

(d)  Title 72, Transportation Code; and

(e)  Title 78A, Chapter 5, District Courts.

(2)  Except as otherwise provided in Sections 63G-6a-105 and 63G-6a-107, a procurement unit shall conduct a procurement in accordance with this chapter.

(3) (a)  The Department of Transportation may make rules governing the procurement of highway construction or improvement.

(b)  The applicable rulemaking authority for a public transit district may make rules governing the procurement of a transit construction project or a transit improvement project.

(c)  This Subsection (3) supersedes Subsections (1) and (2).

(4)  Except to the extent otherwise agreed to in a memorandum of understanding between the division and the following entities, the authority of the chief procurement officer and of the division does not extend to a procurement unit with independent procurement authority.

(5)  An entity described in Subsection (4) may, without supervision, interference, or involvement by the chief procurement officer or the division, but consistent with the requirements of this chapter:

(a)  engage in a standard procurement process;

(b)  procure an item under an exception, as provided in this chapter, to the requirement to use a standard procurement process; or

(c)  otherwise engage in an act authorized or required by this chapter.

(6)  The attorney general may, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, but without involvement by the division or the chief procurement officer:

(a)  retain outside counsel; or

(b)  procure litigation support services, including retaining an expert witness.

(7) An entity described in Subsection (4) that is not represented by the attorney general's office may, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, but without involvement by the division or the chief procurement officer:

(a)  retain outside counsel; or

(b)  procure litigation support services, including retaining an expert witness.

(8)  The state auditor's office may, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, but without involvement by the division or the chief procurement officer, procure audit services.

(9)  The state treasurer may, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, but without involvement by the division or the chief procurement officer, procure:

(a)  deposit and investment services; and

(b)  services related to issuing bonds.



Amended by Chapter 445, 2013 General Session

