63G-6a-202.   Creation of Utah State Procurement Policy Board.

(1)  There is created the Utah State Procurement Policy Board.

(2)  The board consists of up to 15 members as follows:

(a)  two representatives of state institutions of higher education, appointed by the board of regents;

(b)  a representative of the Department of Human Services, appointed by the executive director of that department;

(c)  a representative of the Department of Transportation, appointed by the executive director of that department;

(d)  two representatives of school districts, appointed by the State Office of Education;

(e)  a representative of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management, appointed by the director of that division;

(f) one representative of a county, appointed by the Utah Association of Counties;

(g)  one representative of a city or town, appointed by the Utah League of Cities and Towns;

(h)  two representatives of local districts or special service districts, appointed by the Utah Association of Special Districts;

(i)  the executive director of the Department of Technology Services or the executive director's designee;

(j)  the chief procurement officer or the chief procurement officer's designee; and

(k)  two representatives of state agencies, other than a state agency already represented on the board, appointed by the executive director of the Department of Administrative Services, with the approval of the executive director of the state agency that employs the employee.

(3)  Members of the board shall be knowledgeable and experienced in, and have supervisory responsibility for, procurement in their official positions.

(4)  A board member may serve as long as the member meets the description in Subsection (2) unless removed by the person or entity with the authority to appoint the board member.

(5) (a)  The board shall:

(i)  adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business; and

(ii)  elect a chair to serve for one year.

(b)  The chair of the board shall be selected by a majority of the members of the board and may be elected to succeeding terms.

(c)  The chief procurement officer shall designate an employee of the division to serve as the nonvoting secretary to the policy board.

(6)  A member of the board may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 91, 2012 General Session 

Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 347, 2012 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 347, 2012 General Session, (Coordination Clause)

