63G-6a-1402.   Procurement of design-build transportation project contracts.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Design-build transportation project contract" means the procurement of both the design and construction of a transportation project in a single contract with a company or combination of companies capable of providing the necessary engineering services and construction.

(b)  "Transportation agency" means:

(i)  the Department of Transportation;

(ii)  a county of the first or second class, as defined in Section 17-50-501;

(iii)  a municipality of the first class, as defined in Section 10-2-301;

(iv)  a public transit district that has more than 200,000 people residing within its boundaries; and

(v)  a public airport authority.

(2)  Except as provided in Subsection (3), a transportation agency may award a design-build transportation project contract for any transportation project that has an estimated cost of at least $50,000,000 by following the requirements of this section.

(3) (a)  The Department of Transportation:

(i)  may award a design-build transportation project contract for any transportation project by following the requirements of this section; and

(ii)  shall make rules, in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, establishing requirements for the procurement of its design-build transportation project contracts in addition to those required by this section.

(b)  A public transit district that has more than 200,000 people residing within its boundaries:

(i)  may award a design-build transportation project contract for any transportation project by following the requirements of this section; and

(ii)  shall pass ordinances or a resolution establishing requirements for the procurement of its design-build transportation project contracts in addition to those required by this section.

(c)  A design-build transportation project contract authorized under this Subsection (3) is not subject to the estimated cost threshold described in Subsection (2).

(d)  A design-build transportation project contract may include provision by the contractor of operations, maintenance, or financing.

(4) (a)  Before entering into a design-build transportation project contract, a transportation agency may issue a request for qualifications to prequalify potential contractors.

(b)  Public notice of the request for qualifications shall be given in accordance with board rules.

(c)  A transportation agency shall require, as part of the qualifications specified in the request for qualifications, that potential contractors at least demonstrate their:

(i)  construction experience;

(ii)  design experience;

(iii)  financial, manpower, and equipment resources available for the project; and

(iv)  experience in other design-build transportation projects with attributes similar to the project being procured.

(d)  The request for qualifications shall identify the number of eligible competing proposers that the transportation agency will select to submit a proposal, which may not be less than two.

(5)  The transportation agency shall:

(a)  evaluate the responses received from the request for qualifications;

(b)  select from their number those qualified to submit proposals; and

(c)  invite those respondents to submit proposals based upon the transportation agency's request for proposals.

(6)  Except as provided in Subsection (7), if the transportation agency fails to receive at least two qualified eligible competing proposals, the transportation agency shall readvertise the project.

(7)  A transportation agency may award a contract for a transportation project that has an estimated cost of $5,000,000 or less to a qualified eligible proposer if:

(a)  only a single proposal is received; and

(b)  the transportation agency determines that:

(i)  the proposal is advantageous to the state; and

(ii)  the proposal price is reasonable.

(8)  The transportation agency shall issue a request for proposals to those qualified respondents that:

(a)  includes a scope of work statement constituting an information for proposal that may include:

(i)  preliminary design concepts;

(ii)  design criteria, needs, and objectives;

(iii)  warranty and quality control requirements;

(iv)  applicable standards;

(v)  environmental documents;

(vi)  constraints;

(vii)  time expectations or limitations;

(viii)  incentives or disincentives; and

(ix)  other special considerations;

(b)  requires submitters to provide:

(i)  a sealed cost proposal;

(ii)  a critical path matrix schedule, including cash flow requirements;

(iii)  proposal security; and

(iv)  other items required by the department for the project; and

(c)  may include award of a stipulated fee to be paid to offerors who submit unsuccessful proposals.

(9)  The transportation agency shall:

(a)  evaluate the submissions received in response to the request for proposals from the prequalified offerors;

(b)  comply with rules relating to discussion of proposals, best and final offers, and evaluations of the proposals submitted; and

(c)  after considering price and other identified factors, award the contract to the responsive and responsible offeror whose proposal is most advantageous to the state.



Amended by Chapter 330, 2012 General Session 

Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 347, 2012 General Session

