78B-14-316.   Special rules of evidence and procedure.
(1)  The physical presence of a nonresident party who is an individual in a
tribunal of this state is not required for the establishment, enforcement, or
modification of a support order or the rendition of a judgment determining
parentage.
(2)  An affidavit, a document substantially complying with federally mandated
forms, or a document incorporated by reference in any of them, which would not
be excluded under the hearsay rule if given in person, is admissible in
evidence if given under penalty of perjury by a party or witness residing in
another state.
(3)  A copy of the record of child-support payments certified as a true copy
of the original by the custodian of the record may be forwarded to a
responding tribunal.  The copy is evidence of facts asserted in it and is
admissible to show whether payments were made.
(4)  Copies of bills for testing for parentage, and for prenatal and postnatal
health care of the mother and child, furnished to the adverse party at least
10 days before trial, are admissible in evidence to prove the amount of the
charges billed and that the charges were reasonable, necessary, and customary.
(5)  Documentary evidence transmitted from another state to a tribunal of this
state by telephone, telecopier, or other means that do not provide an original
record may not be excluded from evidence on an objection based on the means of
transmission.
(6)  In a proceeding under this chapter, a tribunal of this state shall permit
a party or witness residing in another state to be deposed or to testify by
telephone, audiovisual means, or other electronic means at a designated
tribunal or other location in that state.  A tribunal of this state shall
cooperate with tribunals of other states in designating an appropriate
location for the deposition or testimony.
(7)  If a party called to testify at a civil hearing refuses to answer on the
ground that the testimony may be self-incriminating, the trier of fact may
draw an adverse inference from the refusal.
(8)  A privilege against disclosure of communications between spouses does not
apply in a proceeding under this chapter.
(9)  The defense of immunity based on the relationship of husband and wife or
parent and child does not apply in a proceeding under this chapter.
(10)  A voluntary acknowledgment of paternity, certified as a true copy, is
admissible to establish parentage of the child.
