7-1-203.   Board of Financial Institutions.
(1)  There is created a Board of Financial Institutions consisting of the
commissioner and the following five members, who shall be qualified by
training and experience in their respective fields and shall be appointed by
the governor with the consent of the Senate:
(a)  one representative from the commercial banking business;
(b)  one representative from the savings and loan, consumer lending, mortgage
brokerage, or escrow agency business;
(c)  one representative from the industrial bank business;
(d)  one representative from the credit union business; and
(e)  one representative of the general public who, as a result of education,
training, experience, or interest, is well qualified to consider economic and
financial issues and data as they may affect the public interest in the
soundness of the financial systems of this state.
(2)  The commissioner shall act as chair.
(3) (a)  All members of the board shall be residents of this state.
(b)  No more than three members of the board may be from the same political
party.
(c)  No more than two members of the board may be connected with the same
financial institution or its holding company.
(d)  A member may not participate in any matter involving any institution with
which the member has a conflict of interest.
(4) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (4)(b), the terms of office shall be
four years each expiring on July 1.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (4)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(c)  All members serve until their respective successors are appointed and
qualified.
(d)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(5) (a)  The board shall meet at least quarterly on a date it sets.
(b)  The commissioner or any two members of the board may call additional
meetings.
(c)  Four members constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(d)  Actions of the board require a vote of a majority of those present.
(e)  Meetings of the board and records of its proceedings are subject to Title
52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act, except for discussion of
confidential information pertaining to a particular financial institution.
(6) (a)  Each member of the board shall, by sworn or written statement filed
with the commissioner, disclose any position of employment or ownership
interest that the member has with respect to any institution subject to the
jurisdiction of the department.
(b)  The member shall:
(i)  file the statement required by this Subsection (6) when first appointed
to the board; and
(ii)  subsequently file amendments to the statement if there is any material
change in the matters covered by the statement.
(7) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(8)  The board shall advise the commissioner with respect to:
(a)  the exercise of the commissioner's duties, powers, and responsibilities
under this title; and
(b)  the organization and performance of the department and its employees.
(9)  The board shall recommend annually to the governor and the Legislature a
budget for the requirements of the department in carrying out its duties,
functions, and responsibilities under this title.
