7-1-209.   Additional supervisors, examiners, and other personnel -- Compensation -- Travel expenses.

(1)  In addition to the supervisors under Sections 7-1-205 through 7-1-208.1, the commissioner may appoint additional supervisors as necessary.  The commissioner may assign to any supervisor responsibility, subject to the direction and control of the commissioner, for the general supervision and examination of any class of financial institutions or other persons not specifically assigned to another supervisor.

(2)  The commissioner may employ examiners required for the proper conduct of the department.  These examiners may not be interested, directly or indirectly, in any institution under the jurisdiction and supervision of the department.  They shall perform duties prescribed by this title or assigned to them by the commissioner.

(3)  The commissioner may delegate to the chief examiner or any supervisor the duty of conducting hearings in carrying out the duties, powers, and functions of the department or he may employ, on a regular or part-time basis, similarly qualified persons to act as hearing officers for those purposes.

(4)  The commissioner may appoint or employ, on a permanent or consulting basis, other persons qualified by education, training, and experience for the needs of the department as the commissioner considers necessary to carry out the duties, powers, and responsibilities of the department.

(5)  The commissioner may employ clerical help to properly carry on the work of the department.

(6)  The salaries of the employees of the department shall be fixed in accordance with salary and merit standards adopted by the Division of Finance and are payable in the same manner as the salaries of other state employees.  All actual and necessary traveling expenses of the commissioner, supervisors, examiners, and other employees of the department incurred in the discharge of their duties shall be fully itemized upon proper vouchers and certified by the commissioner to the director of the Division of Finance.



Amended by Chapter 200, 1994 General Session

