7-1-701.   Representation and transacting business as financial institution
restricted -- Restricted names -- Penalty.
(1)  As used in this section, "transact business" includes:
(a)  advertising;
(b)  representing oneself in any manner as being engaged in transacting
business;
(c)  registering an assumed name under which to transact business; or
(d)  using an assumed business name, sign, letterhead, business card,
promotion, or other indication that one is transacting business.
(2)  Unless authorized by the department or an agency of the federal
government to do so, it is unlawful for any person to:
(a)  transact business as a:
(i)  bank;
(ii)  savings and loan association;
(iii)  savings bank;
(iv)  industrial bank;
(v)  credit union;
(vi)  trust company; or
(vii)  other financial or depository institution; or
(b)  engage in any other activity subject to the jurisdiction of the
department.
(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsections (3)(b) through (d), only the
following may transact business in this state under a name that includes
"bank," "banker," "banking," "banque," "banc," "banco," "bancorp,"
"bancorporation," any derivative of these words, or any other word or
combination of words reasonably identifying the business of a bank:
(i)  a national bank;
(ii)  a bank authorized to do business under Chapter 3, Banks;
(iii)  a bank holding company; or
(iv)  an industrial bank.
(b)  A person authorized to operate in this state as a credit card bank, as
described in Section 7-3-3:
(i)  may transact business under the name "credit card bank"; and
(ii)  may not transact business under the name of "bank" unless it is
immediately preceded by "credit card."
(c)  A nonbank subsidiary of a bank holding company may transact business
under a name restricted in Subsection (3)(a) if the name:
(i)  is also part of the name of its parent holding company; or
(ii)  is used for a group of subsidiaries of the parent holding company.
(d)  The Utah Bankers Association or other bona fide trade association of
authorized banks may transact its affairs in this state under a name
restricted under Subsection (3)(a) if it does not operate and does not hold
itself out to the public as operating a depository or financial institution.
(4) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), only the following may
transact business in this state under a name that includes "savings
association," "savings and loan association," "building and loan association,"
"building association," any derivative of these words, or any other word or
combination of words reasonably identifying the business of a savings and loan
association:
(i)  a federal savings and loan association;
(ii)  a federal savings bank; or
(iii)  a savings and loan association authorized to do business under Chapter
7, Savings and Loan Associations Act.
(b)  A national bank may transact business under a name restricted in
Subsection (4)(a) if the restricted words are part of the bank's corporate
name.
(5)  Only the following may transact business under the name "savings bank":
(a)  a depository institution listed in Subsection (3)(a);
(b)  a depository institution listed in Subsection (4)(a); or
(c)  a depository institution authorized under state law to operate in this
state as a savings bank.
(6) (a)  Only an industrial loan company authorized to do business under
Chapter 8, Industrial Banks, to the extent permitted by Section 7-8-21, may
transact business in this state under a name that includes "industrial loan
company," "ILC," or any other word, combination of words, or abbreviation
reasonably identifying the business of an industrial loan company.
(b)  Only an industrial bank authorized to do business under Chapter 8,
Industrial Banks, may transact business in this state under a name that
includes "industrial bank," "thrift," or any other word, combination of words,
or abbreviation reasonably identifying the business of an industrial bank.
(7) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(b), only a credit union
authorized to do business under the laws of the United States or Chapter 9,
Utah Credit Union Act, may transact business in this state under a name that
includes "credit union" or any other word or combination of words reasonably
identifying the business of a credit union.
(b)  The restriction in Subsection (7)(a) does not apply to the Utah League of
Credit Unions, any credit union chapter, or any other association affiliated
with the Utah League of Credit Unions that restricts its services primarily to
credit unions.
(8) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (8)(b), only a person granted trust
powers under Chapter 5, Trust Business, may transact business in this state
under a name that includes "trust," "trustee," "trust company," or any other
word or combination of words reasonably identifying the business of a trust
company.
(b)  A business entity organized as a business trust, as defined in Section
7-5-1, may use "business trust" in its name if it does not hold itself out as
being a trust company.
(9)  The restrictions of Subsections (3) through (8) do not apply to:
(a)  the name under which an out-of-state depository institution operates a
loan production office in this state, if the commissioner approves the name as
not being reasonably likely to mislead the public;
(b)  the name under which a service organization of a financial institution
transacts business, if the commissioner approves the name as not being
reasonably likely to mislead the public;
(c)  the name under which a subsidiary of a depository or financial
institution transacts business, if the commissioner approves the name as not
being reasonably likely to mislead the public; or
(d)  a trade association or other nonprofit organization composed of members
of a particular class of financial institutions using words applicable to that
class.
(10) (a)  Upon written request, the commissioner may grant an exemption to
this section if the commissioner finds that the use of an otherwise restricted
name or word is not reasonably likely to cause confusion or lead the public to
believe that the person requesting the exemption is a depository or financial
institution or is conducting a business subject to the jurisdiction of the
department.
(b)  In granting an exemption under Subsection (10)(a), the commissioner may
restrict or condition the use of the name or word or the activities of the
person or business as the commissioner considers necessary to protect the
public.
(11) (a)  Each person and each principal and officer of a business entity
violating this section is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.  Each day of
violation constitutes a separate offense.
(b)  In addition to a criminal penalty imposed under Subsection (11)(a), the
commissioner may issue a cease and desist order against a person violating
this section.  The commissioner may impose a civil penalty of up to $500 for
each day the person fails to comply with the cease and desist order.
