7-1-706.   Application to commissioner to exercise power -- Procedure.
(1)  Except as provided in Sections 7-1-704 and 7-1-705, by filing a request
for agency action with the commissioner, any person may request the
commissioner to:
(a)  issue any rule or order;
(b)  exercise any powers granted to the commissioner under this title; or
(c)  act on any matter that is subject to the approval of the commissioner.
(2)  Within ten days of receipt of the request, the commissioner shall, at the
applicant's expense, cause a supervisor to make a careful investigation of the
facts relevant or material to the request.
(3) (a)  The supervisor shall submit written findings and recommendations to
the commissioner.
(b)  The application, any additional information furnished by the applicant,
and the findings and recommendations of the supervisor may be inspected by any
person at the office of the commissioner, except those portions of the
application or report that the commissioner designates as confidential to
prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of privacy.
(4) (a)  If a hearing is held concerning the request, the commissioner shall
publish notice of the hearing at the applicant's expense:
(i)  in a newspaper of general circulation within the county where the
applicant is located at least once a week for three successive weeks before
the date of the hearing; and
(ii)  as required in Section 45-1-101 for three weeks before the date of the
hearing.
(b)  The notice required by Subsection (4)(a) shall include the information
required by the department's rules.
(c)  The commissioner shall act upon the request within 30 days after the
close of the hearing, based on the record before the commissioner.
(5) (a)  If no hearing is held, the commissioner shall approve or disapprove
the request within 90 days of receipt of the request based on:
(i)  the application;
(ii)  additional information filed with the commissioner; and
(iii)  the findings and recommendations of the supervisor.
(b)  The commissioner shall act on the request by issuing findings of fact,
conclusions, and an order, and shall mail a copy of each to:
(i)  the applicant;
(ii)  all persons who have filed protests to the granting of the application;
and
(iii) other persons that the commissioner considers should receive copies.
(6)  The commissioner may impose any conditions or limitations on the approval
or disapproval of a request that the commissioner considers proper to:
(a)  protect the interest of creditors, depositors, and other customers of an
institution;
(b)  protect its shareholders or members; and
(c)  carry out the purposes of this title.
