34A-5-105.   Antidiscrimination and Labor Advisory Council -- Membership -- Appointment -- Term -- Powers and duties -- Chair.

(1)  There is created an Antidiscrimination and Labor Advisory Council consisting of:

(a)  13 voting members appointed by the commissioner as follows:

(i)  three employer representatives;

(ii)  three employee representatives;

(iii)  two representatives of persons who seek to rent or purchase dwellings as defined in Section 57-21-2;

(iv)  two representatives of persons who:

(A)  sell or rent dwellings; and

(B)  are subject to Title 57, Chapter 21, Utah Fair Housing Act; and

(v)  three representatives of the general public; and

(b)  the commissioner or the commissioner's designee as a nonvoting member of the council.

(2)  In making the appointments under Subsection (1), the commissioner shall consider representation of the following protected classes:

(a)  race;

(b)  color;

(c)  national origin;

(d)  gender;

(e)  religion;

(f)  age;

(g)  persons with disabilities;

(h)  familial status as defined in Section 57-21-2; and

(i)  source of income as defined in Section 57-21-2.

(3)  The division shall provide any necessary staff support for the council.

(4) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (4)(b), as terms of current council members expire, the commissioner shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (4)(a), the commissioner shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that approximately half of the council is appointed every two years.

(5) (a)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(b)  The commissioner shall terminate the term of a council member who ceases to be representative as designated by the original appointment.

(6)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(7) (a)  The advisory council shall:

(i)  offer advice on issues requested by:

(A)  the commission;

(B)  the division; or

(C)  the Legislature; and

(ii)  make recommendations to the commission and division regarding issues related to:

(A)  employment discrimination;

(B)  housing discrimination; and

(C)  the administration by the commission of:

(I)  the provisions of Title 34, Labor in General, that are administered by the commission;

(II)  Title 34A, Chapter 5, Utah Antidiscrimination Act; and

(III)  Title 57, Chapter 21, Utah Fair Housing Act.

(b)  The council shall confer at least quarterly for the purpose of advising the commission, division, and the Legislature regarding issues described in Subsection (7)(a).

(8) (a)  The commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall serve as chair of the council.

(b)  The chair is charged with the responsibility of calling the necessary meetings.

