76-8-109.   Failure of member of Legislature to disclose interest in measure
or bill.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Business in which the legislator is associated" means any business in
which a legislator is a director, officer, owner, member, partner, employee,
or is a holder of stocks or bonds in the company that have a fair market value
of $10,000 or more.  This does not include business associations by members of
the legislator's immediate family.
(b)  "Conflict of interest" means legislation or action by a legislator that
the legislator reasonably believes may cause direct financial benefit or
detriment to him, a member of the legislator's immediate family, or a business
in which the legislator is associated, and that benefit or detriment is
distinguishable from the effects of that action on the public or on the
legislator's profession, occupation, or association generally.
(c)  "Immediate family" means the legislator's spouse and children living in
the legislator's immediate household.
(2)  In addition to the Declaration of Conflict of Interest form provided for
in Subsection (3), before or during any vote on legislation or any legislative
matter in which a legislator has actual knowledge that he has a conflict of
interest which is not stated on the conflict of interest form, that legislator
shall orally declare to the committee or body before which the matter is
pending that the legislator may have a conflict of interest and what that
conflict is.  This declaration of conflict of interest shall be noted in the
minutes of any committee meeting or in the Senate or House Journal.
(3) (a)  A legislator shall file a Declaration of Conflict of Interest form
with the Secretary of the Senate if the legislator is a senator or with the
Chief Clerk of the House of Representatives if the legislator is a
representative to satisfy that legislator's disclosure of any conflict of
interest as required by Subsection (2).
(b)  This Declaration of Conflict of Interest form shall include the
businesses in which the legislator is associated and the general legislative
subject areas in which the legislator may have a conflict of interest.
(c)  This Declaration of Conflict of Interest form is available to the public.
(d)  This requirement of disclosure of any conflict of interest does not
prohibit a legislator from voting on any legislation or legislative matter.
(4)  Every member of the Legislature who has a conflict of interest in any
measure or bill proposed or pending before the Legislature of which he is a
member and does not disclose the fact to the house of which he is a member and
votes thereon is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
