76-8-316.   Influencing, impeding, or retaliating against a judge or member of the Board of Pardons and Parole or acting against a family member of a judge or a member of the Board of Pardons and Parole.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Board member" means an appointed member of the Board of Pardons and Parole.

(b)  "Family member" means parents, spouse, surviving spouse, children, and siblings of a judge or board member.

(c)  "Judge" means judges of all courts of record and courts not of record and court commissioners.

(2)  A person is guilty of a third degree felony if the person threatens to assault, kidnap, or murder a judge, a family member of a judge, a board member, or a family member of a board member with the intent to impede, intimidate, or interfere with the judge or board member while engaged in the performance of the judge's or board member's official duties or with the intent to retaliate against the judge or board member on account of the performance of those official duties.

(3)  A person is guilty of a second degree felony if the person commits an assault on a judge, a family member of a judge, a board member, or a family member of a board member with the intent to impede, intimidate, or interfere with the judge or board member while engaged in the performance of the judge's or board member's official duties, or with the intent to retaliate against the judge or board member on account of the performance of those official duties.

(4)  A person is guilty of a first degree felony if the person commits aggravated assault on a judge, a family member of a judge, a board member, or a family member of a board member with the intent to impede, intimidate, or interfere with the judge or board member while engaged in the performance of the judge's or board member's official duties or with the intent to retaliate against the judge or board member on account of the performance of those official duties.

(5)  A person is guilty of a first degree felony if the person commits attempted murder on a family member of a judge or a family member of a board member with the intent to impede, intimidate, or interfere with the judge or board member while engaged in the performance of the judge's or board member's official duties or with the intent to retaliate against the judge or board member on account of the performance of those official duties.

(6)  A member of the Board of Pardons and Parole is an executive officer for purposes of Subsection 76-5-202(1)(m).



Amended by Chapter 432, 2013 General Session

