76-8-711.   Withdrawal of consent to remain on campus or facility -- Report and confirmation of action -- Reinstatement -- Hearing -- Re-entry -- Powers of suspension, dismissal or expulsion not affected.

(1)  The chief administrative officer of a campus or other facility of an institution of higher education, or his agent or representative, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that any student has willfully disrupted the orderly operation of the campus or facility, may notify any student that consent to remain on the campus or other facility under the control of the chief administrative officer has been withdrawn.

(2) (a)  Whenever consent is withdrawn by any authorized officer or employee, other than the chief administrative officer, the officer or employee shall as soon as is reasonably possible submit a written report to the chief administrative officer. The report shall contain the following:

(i)  The description of the person from whom consent was withdrawn, including, if available, the person's name and address.

(ii)  A brief statement of the facts giving rise to the withdrawal of consent.

(b)  If the chief administrative officer or, in his absence, his agent or representative upon reviewing the report finds there was reasonable cause to believe that the person willfully disrupted the orderly operation of the campus or facility, he may enter written confirmation upon the report of the action taken by the officer or employee. If the chief administrative officer or, in his absence, his agent or representative does not confirm the action of the officer or employee within 24 hours after the time consent was withdrawn, the action of the officer or employee shall be deemed void and of no force or effect, except that any arrest made during that period shall not, for this reason, be deemed not to have been made for probable cause.

(3)  Consent shall be reinstated by the chief administrative officer whenever he has reason to believe that the presence of the student from whom consent was withdrawn will not constitute a substantial and material threat to the orderly operation of the campus or facility. In no case shall consent be withdrawn for longer than 14 days from the date upon which consent was initially withdrawn. The student from whom consent has been withdrawn may submit a written request for a hearing on the withdrawal within the two-week period. The written request shall state the address to which notice of hearing is to be sent. The chief administrative officer shall grant a hearing not later than seven days from the date of receipt of a request and immediately mail a written notice of the time, place, and date of hearing.

(4) (a)  Any student who has been notified by the chief administrative officer of a campus or other facility of an institution of higher education or by an officer or employee designated by the chief administrative officer to maintain order on the campus or facility, that consent to remain on the campus or facility has been withdrawn pursuant to Subsections (1) and (2), who has not had consent reinstated, and who willfully and knowingly enters or remains upon the campus or facility during the period for which consent has been withdrawn is guilty of an offense.

(b)  This subsection shall not apply to any student who re-enters the campus or facility eight hours after notification of the withdrawal of consent for the sole purpose of applying to the chief administrative officer for reinstatement of consent or for the sole purpose of attending a hearing on withdrawal.

(5)  This section shall not affect the power of the duly constituted authorities of an institution of higher education to suspend, dismiss, or expel any student or employee at the university or college.

(6)  Any student convicted under this section shall be punished as provided in Section 76-8-717.

