53A-3-301.   Superintendent of schools -- Appointment -- Qualifications -- Term -- Compensation.

(1)  Subject to Subsection (8), a local school board shall appoint a district superintendent of schools who serves as the local school board's chief executive officer.

(2)  A local school board shall appoint the superintendent on the basis of outstanding professional qualifications.

(3) (a)  A superintendent's term of office is for two years and until, subject to Subsection (8), a successor is appointed and qualified.

(b)  A local school board that appoints a superintendent in accordance with this section may not, on or after May 10, 2011, enter into an employment contract that contains an automatic renewal provision with the superintendent.

(4) Unless a vacancy occurs during an interim vacancy period subject to Subsection (8), if it becomes necessary to appoint an interim superintendent due to a vacancy in the office of superintendent, the local school board shall make an appointment during a public meeting for an indefinite term not to exceed one year, which term shall end upon the appointment and qualification of a new superintendent.

(5) (a)  The superintendent shall hold an administrative/supervisory license issued by the State Board of Education, except as otherwise provided in Subsection (5)(b).

(b)  At the request of a local school board, the State Board of Education shall grant a letter of authorization permitting a person with outstanding professional qualifications to serve as superintendent without holding an administrative/supervisory license.

(6)  A local school board shall set the superintendent's compensation for services.

(7)  A superintendent qualifies for office by taking the constitutional oath of office.

(8) (a)  As used in this Subsection (8), "interim vacancy period" means the period of time that:

(i)  begins on the day on which a general election described in Section 20A-1-202 is held to elect a member of a local school board; and

(ii)  ends on the day on which the member-elect begins the member's term.

(b) (i)  The local school board may not appoint a superintendent during an interim vacancy period.

(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (8)(b)(i):

(A)  the local school board may appoint an interim superintendent during an interim vacancy period; and

(B)  the interim superintendent's term shall expire once a new superintendent is appointed by the new local school board after the interim vacancy period has ended.

(c)  Subsection (8)(b) does not apply if all the local school board members who held office on the day of the general election whose term of office was vacant for the election are re-elected to the local school board for the following term.



Amended by Chapter 209, 2011 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 322, 2011 General Session

