53A-3-402.   Powers and duties generally.
(1)  Each local school board shall:
(a)  implement the core curriculum utilizing instructional materials that best
correlate to the core curriculum and graduation requirements;
(b)  administer tests, required by the State Board of Education, which measure
the progress of each student, and coordinate with the state superintendent and
State Board of Education to assess results and create plans to improve the
student's progress which shall be submitted to the State Office of Education
for approval;
(c)  use progress-based assessments as part of a plan to identify schools,
teachers, and students that need remediation and determine the type and amount
of federal, state, and local resources to implement remediation;
(d)  develop early warning systems for students or classes failing to make
progress;
(e)  work with the State Office of Education to establish a library of
documented best practices, consistent with state and federal regulations, for
use by the local districts; and
(f)  implement training programs for school administrators, including basic
management training, best practices in instructional methods, budget training,
staff management, managing for learning results and continuous improvement,
and how to help every child achieve optimal learning in core academics.
(2)  Local school boards shall spend minimum school program funds for programs
and activities for which the State Board of Education has established minimum
standards or rules under Section 53A-1-402.
(3) (a)  A board may purchase, sell, and make improvements on school sites,
buildings, and equipment and construct, erect, and furnish school buildings.
(b)  School sites or buildings may only be conveyed or sold on board
resolution affirmed by at least two-thirds of the members.
(4) (a)  A board may participate in the joint construction or operation of a
school attended by children residing within the district and children residing
in other districts either within or outside the state.
(b)  Any agreement for the joint operation or construction of a school shall:
(i)  be signed by the president of the board of each participating district;
(ii)  include a mutually agreed upon pro rata cost; and
(iii)  be filed with the State Board of Education.
(5)  A board may establish, locate, and maintain elementary, secondary, and
applied technology schools.
(6)  Except as provided in Section 53A-1-1001, a board may enroll children in
school who are at least five years of age before September 2 of the year in
which admission is sought.
(7)  A board may establish and support school libraries.
(8)  A board may collect damages for the loss, injury, or destruction of
school property.
(9)  A board may authorize guidance and counseling services for children and
their parents or guardians prior to, during, or following enrollment of the
children in schools.
(10) (a)  A board shall administer and implement federal educational programs
in accordance with Title 53A, Chapter 1, Part 9, Implementing Federal Programs
Act.
(b)  Federal funds are not considered funds within the school district budget
under Title 53A, Chapter 19, School District Budgets.
(11) (a)  A board may organize school safety patrols and adopt rules under
which the patrols promote student safety.
(b)  A student appointed to a safety patrol shall be at least 10 years old and
have written parental consent for the appointment.
(c)  Safety patrol members may not direct vehicular traffic or be stationed in
a portion of a highway intended for vehicular traffic use.
(d)  Liability may not attach to a school district, its employees, officers,
or agents or to a safety patrol member, a parent of a safety patrol member, or
an authorized volunteer assisting the program by virtue of the organization,
maintenance, or operation of a school safety patrol.
(12) (a)  A board may on its own behalf, or on behalf of an educational
institution for which the board is the direct governing body, accept private
grants, loans, gifts, endowments, devises, or bequests that are made for
educational purposes.
(b)  These contributions are not subject to appropriation by the Legislature.
(13) (a)  A board may appoint and fix the compensation of a compliance officer
to issue citations for violations of Subsection 76-10-105(2).
(b)  A person may not be appointed to serve as a compliance officer without
the person's consent.
(c)  A teacher or student may not be appointed as a compliance officer.
(14)  A board shall adopt bylaws and rules for its own procedures.
(15) (a)  A board shall make and enforce rules necessary for the control and
management of the district schools.
(b)  All board rules and policies shall be in writing, filed, and referenced
for public access.
(16)  A board may hold school on legal holidays other than Sundays.
(17) (a)  Each board shall establish for each school year a school traffic
safety committee to implement this Subsection (17).
(b)  The committee shall be composed of one representative of:
(i)  the schools within the district;
(ii)  the Parent Teachers' Association of the schools within the district;
(iii)  the municipality or county;
(iv)  state or local law enforcement; and
(v)  state or local traffic safety engineering.
(c)  The committee shall:
(i)  receive suggestions from parents, teachers, and others and recommend
school traffic safety improvements, boundary changes to enhance safety, and
school traffic safety program measures;
(ii)  review and submit annually to the Department of Transportation and
affected municipalities and counties a child access routing plan for each
elementary, middle, and junior high school within the district;
(iii)  consult the Utah Safety Council and the Division of Family Health
Services and provide training to all school children in kindergarten through
grade six, within the district, on school crossing safety and use; and
(iv)  help ensure the district's compliance with rules made by the Department
of Transportation under Section 41-6a-303.
(d)  The committee may establish subcommittees as needed to assist in
accomplishing its duties under Subsection (17)(c).
(e)  The board shall require the school community council of each elementary,
middle, and junior high school within the district to develop and submit
annually to the committee a child access routing plan.
(18) (a)  Each school board shall adopt and implement a comprehensive
emergency response plan to prevent and combat violence in its public schools,
on school grounds, on its school vehicles, and in connection with school-
related activities or events.
(b)  The board shall implement its plan by July 1, 2000.
(c)  The plan shall:
(i)  include prevention, intervention, and response components;
(ii)  be consistent with the student conduct and discipline policies required
for school districts under Title 53A, Chapter 11, Part 9, School Discipline
and Conduct Plans;
(iii)  require inservice training for all district and school building staff
on what their roles are in the emergency response plan; and
(iv)  provide for coordination with local law enforcement and other public
safety representatives in preventing, intervening, and responding to violence
in the areas and activities referred to in Subsection (18)(a).
(d)  The State Board of Education, through the state superintendent of public
instruction, shall develop comprehensive emergency response plan models that
local school boards may use, where appropriate, to comply with Subsection
(18)(a).
(e)  Each local school board shall, by July 1 of each year, certify to the
State Board of Education that its plan has been practiced at the school level
and presented to and reviewed by its teachers, administrators, students, and
their parents and local law enforcement and public safety representatives.
(19) (a)  Each local school board may adopt an emergency response plan for the
treatment of sports-related injuries that occur during school sports practices
and events.
(b)  The plan may be implemented by each secondary school in the district that
has a sports program for students.
(c)  The plan may:
(i)  include emergency personnel, emergency communication, and emergency
equipment components;
(ii)  require inservice training on the emergency response plan for school
personnel who are involved in sports programs in the district's secondary
schools; and
(iii)  provide for coordination with individuals and agency representatives
who:
(A)  are not employees of the school district; and
(B)  would be involved in providing emergency services to students injured
while participating in sports events.
(d)  The board, in collaboration with the schools referred to in Subsection
(19)(b), may review the plan each year and make revisions when required to
improve or enhance the plan.
(e)  The State Board of Education, through the state superintendent of public
instruction, shall provide local school boards with an emergency plan response
model that local boards may use to comply with the requirements of this
Subsection (19).
(20)  A board shall do all other things necessary for the maintenance,
prosperity, and success of the schools and the promotion of education.
(21) (a)  Before closing a school or changing the boundaries of a school, a
board shall:
(i)  hold a public hearing, as defined in Section 10-9a-103; and
(ii)  provide public notice of the public hearing, as specified in Subsection
(21)(b).
(b)  The notice of a public hearing required under Subsection (21)(a) shall:
(i)  indicate the:
(A)  school or schools under consideration for closure or boundary change; and
(B)  date, time, and location of the public hearing; and
(ii)  at least 10 days prior to the public hearing, be:
(A)  published:
(I)  in a newspaper of general circulation in the area; and
(II) on the Utah Public Notice Website created in Section 63F-1-701; and
(B)  posted in at least three public locations within the municipality or on
the district's official website.
(22)  A board may implement a facility energy efficiency program established
under Title 11, Chapter 44, Facility Energy Efficiency Act.
