53A-3-410.   Criminal background checks on school personnel -- Notice --
Payment of costs -- Request for review.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Administrator" means an administrator at a school district, charter
school, or private school that requests the Criminal Investigations and
Technical Services Division of the Department of Public Safety to conduct a
criminal background check on an applicant or employee.
(b)  "Applicant" means a person under consideration for:
(i)  an offer of employment at a school district, charter school, or private
school; or
(ii)  appointment as a volunteer for a school district, charter school, or
private school who will be given significant unsupervised access to a student
in connection with the volunteer's assignment.
(c)  "Contract employee" means an employee of a staffing service who works at
a public or private school under a contract between the staffing service and a
school district, charter school, or private school.
(d)  "Division" means the Criminal Investigations and Technical Services
Division of the Department of Public Safety.
(2)  A school district superintendent, the superintendent's designee, or the
chief administrative officer of a charter school:
(a)  shall require an applicant to submit to a criminal background check as a
condition for employment or appointment;
(b)  shall require an employee to periodically submit to a criminal background
check in accordance with rules of the State Board of Education or policies of
the local school board or charter school governing board; and
(c)  where reasonable cause exists, may require an existing employee or
volunteer to submit to a criminal background check.
(3)  The chief administrative officer of a private school may require, and the
chief administrative officer of a private school that enrolls scholarship
students under Chapter 1a, Part 7, Carson Smith Scholarships for Students with
Special Needs Act, shall require:
(a)  an applicant to submit to a criminal background check as a condition for
employment or appointment; and
(b)  where reasonable cause exists, an existing employee or volunteer to
submit to a criminal background check.
(4)  An applicant, volunteer, or employee shall receive written notice that a
criminal background check has been requested.
(5) (a) (i)  Fingerprints of the applicant, volunteer, or employee shall be
taken, and the Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division of the
Department of Public Safety, established in Section 53-10-103, shall release
the applicant's, volunteer's, or employee's full criminal history record to
the administrator requesting the information.
(ii)  The division shall maintain a separate file of fingerprints submitted
under Subsection (5)(a)(i) and notify the administrator when a new entry is
made against an employee or volunteer whose fingerprints are held in the file
regarding:
(A)  any matters involving an alleged sexual offense;
(B)  any matters involving an alleged drug-related offense;
(C)  any matters involving an alleged alcohol-related offense; or
(D)  any matters involving an alleged offense against the person under Title
76, Chapter 5, Offenses Against the Person.
(iii)  The cost of maintaining the separate file shall be paid by the school
district, charter school, or private school from fees charged to those
submitting fingerprints.
(b)  Information received by the division from entities other than agencies or
political subdivisions of the state may not be released to a private school
unless the release is permissible under applicable laws or regulations of the
entity providing the information.
(6)  The superintendent, local school board, or their counterparts at a
charter school or private school shall consider only those convictions, pleas
in abeyance, or arrests which are job-related for the employee, applicant, or
volunteer.
(7) (a)  A school district, charter school, or private school may require an
applicant to pay the costs of a background check as a condition for
consideration for employment or appointment, if the applicant:
(i)  has passed an initial review; and
(ii)  is one of a pool of no more than five candidates for a position.
(b)  A school district or charter school may require an employee to pay the
cost of a periodic criminal background check required pursuant to rules of the
State Board of Education or policies of the local school board or charter
school governing board.
(8)  The Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division shall, upon
request, seek additional information from regional or national criminal data
files in responding to inquiries under this section.
(9) (a)  An applicant, volunteer, or employee shall have an opportunity to
respond to any information received as a result of a criminal background
check.
(b)  A public agency shall resolve any request for review by an applicant,
volunteer, or employee through administrative procedures established by the
agency.
(10) (a)  If a person is denied employment or is dismissed from employment
because of information obtained through a criminal background check, the
person shall receive written notice of the reasons for denial or dismissal and
have an opportunity to respond to the reasons.
(b)  A school district or charter school shall resolve any request for a
review of a denial of or dismissal from employment through administrative
procedures established by the school district or charter school.
(11)  Information obtained under this part is confidential and may only be
disclosed as provided in this section.
(12) (a)  A school district, charter school, or private school that enrolls
scholarship students under Chapter 1a, Part 7, Carson Smith Scholarships for
Students with Special Needs Act, may contract with a staffing service to
provide a contract employee if:
(i)  the school district, charter school, or private school requests the
Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division of the Department of
Public Safety to conduct a criminal background check on the contract employee
that is placed at the school district, charter school, or private school;
(ii)  fingerprints of the contract employee are submitted to the division;
(iii)  the division releases the contract employee's full criminal history
record to the school district, charter school, or private school requesting
the criminal background check; and
(iv)  the school district, charter school, or private school requesting the
criminal background check determines whether the contract employee is suitable
for employment based on the standard established in Subsection (6).
(b)  The division shall maintain a separate file of fingerprints submitted
under Subsection (12)(a) and notify the administrator when a new entry is made
against a contract employee whose fingerprints are held in the file regarding
a matter listed in Subsection (5)(a)(ii).
(c)  A school district, charter school, or private school may require a
contract employee to pay the costs of a criminal background check, including
the costs of the division to maintain the file required under Subsection
(12)(b).
(d) (i)  A contract employee who applies for a license issued by the State
Board of Education shall submit to a criminal background check as provided in
Section 53A-6-401.
(ii)  A contract employee who works at a public school and does not hold a
license issued by the State Board of Education shall submit to a criminal
background check every six years, or within a shorter period, if required by
rules of the State Board of Education or policies of a local school board or
charter school governing board.
