53A-3-429.   Regional service centers.

(1)  For purposes of this section, "eligible regional service center" means a regional service center formed by two or more school districts as an interlocal entity, in accordance with Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act.

(2)  The Legislature strongly encourages school districts to collaborate and cooperate to provide educational services in a manner that will best utilize resources for the overall operation of the public education system.

(3)  An eligible regional service center formed by an interlocal agreement, in accordance with Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, may receive a distribution described in Subsection (5) if the Legislature appropriates money for eligible regional service centers.

(4) (a)  If local school boards enter into an interlocal agreement to confirm or formalize a regional service center in operation before July 1, 2011, the interlocal agreement may not eliminate any rights or obligations of the regional service center in effect before entering into the interlocal agreement.

(b)  An interlocal agreement entered into to confirm or formalize an existing regional service center shall have the effect of confirming and ratifying in the regional service center, the title to any property held in the name, or for the benefit of the regional service center as of the effective date of the interlocal agreement.

(5) (a)  The State Board of Education shall distribute any funding appropriated to eligible regional service centers as provided by the Legislature.

(b)  The State Board of Education may provide funding to an eligible regional service center in addition to legislative appropriations.

(6)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the State Board of Education shall make rules regarding eligible regional service centers including:

(a)  the distribution of legislative appropriations to eligible regional service centers;

(b)  the designation of eligible regional service centers as agents to distribute Utah Education Network services; and

(c)  the designation of eligible regional service centers as agents for regional coordination of public education and higher education services.

(7)  A public school that is a charter school may enter into a contract with an eligible regional service center to receive education related services from the eligible regional service center.



Enacted by Chapter 397, 2011 General Session

