32A-4-106.   Operational restrictions.
A person granted a restaurant liquor license and the employees and management
personnel of the restaurant shall comply with the following conditions and
requirements.  Failure to comply may result in a suspension or revocation of
the restaurant liquor license or other disciplinary action taken against
individual employees or management personnel.
(1) (a)  Liquor may not be purchased by a restaurant liquor licensee except
from a state store or package agency.
(b)  Liquor purchased from a state store or package agency may be transported
by the restaurant liquor licensee from the place of purchase to the licensed
premises.
(c)  Payment for liquor shall be made in accordance with rules established by
the commission.
(2)  A restaurant liquor licensee may sell or provide a primary spirituous
liquor only in a quantity not to exceed 1.5 ounces per beverage dispensed
through a calibrated metered dispensing system approved by the department in
accordance with commission rules adopted under this title, except that:
(a)  spirituous liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered
dispensing system if used as a secondary flavoring ingredient in a beverage
subject to the following restrictions:
(i)  the secondary ingredient may be dispensed only in conjunction with the
purchase of a primary spirituous liquor;
(ii)  the secondary ingredient may not be the only spirituous liquor in the
beverage;
(iii)  the restaurant liquor licensee shall designate a location where
flavorings are stored on the floor plan provided to the department; and
(iv) a flavoring container shall be plainly and conspicuously labeled
"flavorings";
(b)  spirituous liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered
dispensing system if used:
(i)  as a flavoring on a dessert; and
(ii)  in the preparation of a flaming food dish, drink, or dessert;
(c) a restaurant patron may have no more than 2.5 ounces of spirituous liquor
at a time; and
(d) a restaurant patron may have no more than one spirituous liquor drink at a
time before the patron.
(3) (a) (i)  Wine may be sold and served by the glass or in an individual
portion not to exceed five ounces per glass or individual portion.
(ii)  An individual portion of wine may be served to a patron in more than one
glass as long as the total amount of wine does not exceed five ounces.
(iii)  An individual portion of wine is considered to be one alcoholic
beverage under Subsection (7)(g).
(b) (i)  Wine may be sold and served in a container not exceeding 1.5 liters
at a price fixed by the commission to a table of four or more persons.
(ii)  Wine may be sold and served in a container not exceeding 750 milliliters
at a price fixed by the commission to a table of less than four persons.
(c)  A wine service may be performed and a service charge assessed by a
restaurant liquor licensee as authorized by commission rule for wine purchased
at the restaurant.
(4) (a)  Heavy beer may be served in an original container not exceeding one
liter at a price fixed by the commission.
(b)  A flavored malt beverage may be served in an original container not
exceeding one liter at a price fixed by the commission.
(c)  A service charge may be assessed by a restaurant liquor licensee as
authorized by commission rule for heavy beer or a flavored malt beverage
purchased at the restaurant.
(5) (a) (i)  Subject to Subsection (5)(a)(ii), a restaurant liquor licensee
may sell beer for on-premise consumption:
(A)  in an open container; and
(B)  on draft.
(ii)  Beer sold pursuant to Subsection (5)(a)(i) shall be in a size of
container that does not exceed two liters, except that beer may not be sold to
an individual patron in a size of container that exceeds one liter.
(b)  A restaurant liquor licensee that sells beer pursuant to Subsection
(5)(a):
(i)  may do so without obtaining a separate on-premise beer retailer license
from the commission; and
(ii)  shall comply with all appropriate operational restrictions under Chapter
10, Beer Retailer Licenses, that apply to an on-premise beer retailer except
when those restrictions are inconsistent with or less restrictive than the
operational restrictions under this part.
(c)  Failure to comply with the operational restrictions under Chapter 10,
Beer Retailer Licenses, required by Subsection (5)(b) may result in a
suspension or revocation of the restaurant's:
(i)  state liquor license; and
(ii)  alcoholic beverage license issued by the local authority.
(6)  An alcoholic beverage may not be stored, served, or sold in a place other
than as designated in the restaurant liquor licensee's application, unless the
restaurant liquor licensee first applies for and receives approval from the
department for a change of location within the restaurant.
(7) (a) (i)  As used in this Subsection (7), and subject to Subsection
(7)(a)(ii), "grandfathered bar structure" means a bar structure in a
restaurant that:
(A)  as of May 11, 2009 has:
(I) (Aa)  patron seating at the bar structure;
(Bb)  a partition at one or more locations on the bar structure that is along
the width of the bar structure; and
(Cc)  facilities for the dispensing or storage of an alcoholic beverage on the
portion of the bar structure that is separated by the partition described in
Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A)(I)(Bb); or
(II) (Aa)  patron seating at the bar structure;
(Bb)  a partition at one or more locations on the bar structure that is along
the length of the bar structure; and
(Cc)  facilities for the dispensing or storage of an alcoholic beverage:
(Ii)  on the portion of the bar structure that is separated by a partition
described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A)(II)(Bb); or
(IIii)  adjacent to the bar structure in a manner visible to a patron sitting
at the bar structure;
(B)  is not operational as of May 12, 2009, and:
(I)  an applicant for a restaurant liquor license under this chapter:
(Aa)  has as of May 12, 2009, a building permit to construct the restaurant;
(Bb)  is as of May 12, 2009, actively engaged in the construction of the
restaurant, as defined by rule made by the commission in accordance with Title
63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act; and
(Cc)  is granted a restaurant liquor license by the commission under this
chapter by no later than December 31, 2009; and
(II)  the restaurant described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(C)(I) has a bar
structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A);
(C)  as of May 12, 2009, has no patron seating at the bar structure; or
(D)  is not operational as of May 12, 2009, and:
(I)  an applicant for a restaurant liquor license under this chapter:
(Aa)  has as of May 12, 2009, a building permit to construct the restaurant;
(Bb)  is as of May 12, 2009, actively engaged in the construction of the
restaurant, as defined by rule made by the commission in accordance with Title
63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act; and
(Cc)  is granted a restaurant liquor license by the commission under this
chapter by no later than December 31, 2009; and
(II)  the restaurant described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(D)(I) has a bar
structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(C).
(ii)  "Grandfathered bar structure" does not include a grandfathered bar
structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i) on or after the day on which a
restaurant remodels the grandfathered bar structure, as defined by rule made
by the commission in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act.
(iii)  Subject to Subsection (7)(a)(ii), a grandfathered bar structure remains
a grandfathered bar structure notwithstanding whether the restaurant undergoes
a change of ownership.
(b) (i)  A patron may only make an alcoholic beverage purchase in the
restaurant from and be served by a person employed, designated, and trained by
the restaurant liquor licensee to sell and serve an alcoholic beverage.
(ii)  Only a person employed, designated, and trained by a restaurant liquor
licensee may sell, serve, or deliver an alcoholic beverage to a patron of a
restaurant.
(iii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (7)(b)(i) or (ii), a patron who purchases
bottled wine from an employee of the restaurant or carries bottled wine onto
the premises of the restaurant pursuant to Subsection (14) may thereafter
serve wine from the bottle to the patron or others at the patron's table.
(c) A patron may consume an alcoholic beverage only:
(i)  at:
(A)  the patron's table;
(B)  a counter; or
(C)  a grandfathered bar structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or
(B); and
(ii)  where food is served.
(d) (i)  An alcoholic beverage may not be served to or consumed by a patron at
a bar structure that is not a grandfathered bar structure described in
Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or (B).
(ii)  A patron who is 21 years of age or older may:
(A)  sit at a grandfathered bar structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A)
or (B);
(B)  be served an alcoholic beverage at a grandfathered bar structure
described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or (B); and
(C)  consume an alcoholic beverage at a grandfathered bar structure described
in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or (B).
(iii)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(d)(iv), a restaurant liquor
licensee may not permit a minor to, and a minor may not:
(A)  sit at a grandfathered bar structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A)
or (B); or
(B)  consume food or beverages at a bar structure described in Subsection
(7)(a)(i)(A) or (B).
(iv) (A)  A minor may be at a grandfathered bar structure described in
Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or (B) if the minor is employed by a restaurant liquor
licensee:
(I)  as provided in Subsection (16)(b); or
(II)  to perform maintenance and cleaning services during an hour when the
restaurant liquor licensee is not open for business.
(B)  A minor may momentarily pass by a grandfathered bar structure described
in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or (B) without remaining or sitting at the bar
structure en route to an area of a restaurant liquor licensee's premises in
which the minor is permitted to be.
(e)  Except as provided in Subsection (14), a restaurant liquor licensee may
dispense an alcoholic beverage only:
(i)  from:
(A)  a grandfathered bar structure;
(B)  an area adjacent to a grandfathered bar structure that is visible to a
patron sitting at the grandfathered bar structure if that area is used to
dispense an alcoholic beverage or alcoholic product as of May 12, 2009; or
(C)  an area that is:
(I)  separated from an area for the consumption of food by a restaurant patron
by a solid, opaque, permanent structural barrier such that the facilities for
the dispensing or storage of an alcoholic beverage or alcoholic product are:
(Aa)  not readily visible to a restaurant patron; and
(Bb)  not accessible by a restaurant patron; and
(II)  apart from an area used:
(Aa)  for dining;
(Bb)  for staging; or
(Cc)  as a lobby or waiting area;
(ii)  if the restaurant liquor licensee uses an alcoholic beverage or
alcoholic product that is:
(A)  stored in an area described in Subsection (7)(e)(i); or
(B)  on the premises of the restaurant liquor licensee in an area not
described in Subsection (7)(e)(i) if:
(I)  immediately before the alcoholic beverage or alcoholic product is
dispensed it is in an unopened package;
(II)  the unopened package is taken to an area described in Subsection
(7)(e)(i) before it is opened; and
(III)  once opened, the package is kept in an area described in Subsection
(7)(e)(i); and
(iii)  if any instrument or equipment used to dispense an alcoholic beverage
or alcoholic product is located in an area described in Subsection (7)(e)(i).
(f) (i)  A restaurant liquor licensee that has a grandfathered bar structure
may receive a credit for purchases from a state store or package agency if:
(A)  the restaurant liquor licensee completes a remodel of the grandfathered
bar structure by no later than December 31, 2011;
(B)  the remodeling described in Subsection (7)(f)(i)(A) results in the
restaurant engaging in an activity described in Subsection (7)(e) only in an
area described in Subsection (7)(e)(i)(C);
(C)  the restaurant liquor licensee requests the credit by no later than April
1, 2012;
(D)  the department determines that the restaurant liquor licensee has
completed a remodel described in Subsections (7)(f)(i)(A) and (B); and
(E)  the department authorizes the credit, including the amount of the credit
under Subsection (7)(f)(ii), on the basis that:
(I)  the restaurant liquor licensee complied with this Subsection (7); and
(II)  the aggregate of credits authorized under this Subsection (7)(f) and
Subsection 32A-4-307(7)(f) before the current authorization does not exceed
the amount described in Subsection (7)(f)(v)(A).
(ii)  The amount of the credit described in this Subsection (7)(f) is the
lesser of:
(A)  the actual costs of the remodel as evidenced by receipts, copies of which
are provided to the department as part of the request for the credit; or
(B)  $30,000.
(iii)  For a restaurant liquor licensee, a credit under this Subsection
(7)(f):
(A)  begins on the day on which the department authorizes the credit under
Subsection (7)(f)(i); and
(B)  ends the day on which the restaurant liquor licensee uses all of the
credit.
(iv)  The department shall by contract provide for how a package agency
accounts for a credit purchase made at the package agency by a restaurant
liquor licensee under this Subsection (7)(f).
(v) (A)  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Subsection (7)(f), the
department may not authorize a credit if the aggregate of credits authorized
under this Subsection (7)(f) and Subsection 32A-4-307(7)(f) before the
department authorizes the credit exceeds:
(I)  $1,000,000, for the aggregate of credits under this Subsection (7)(f) and
Subsection 32A-4-307(7)(f), if the credit could be used on or before June 30,
2010; and
(II)  subject to Subsection (7)(v)(A)(I), $1,090,000 for the aggregate of all
credits that can be authorized under this Subsection (7)(f) and Subsection
32A-4-307(7)(f).
(B)  The department shall authorize credits in the order that the department
receives a request described in Subsection (7)(f)(i)(C) from a restaurant
liquor licensee requesting a credit under this Subsection (7)(f).
(g)  A restaurant patron may have no more than two alcoholic beverages of any
kind at a time before the patron, subject to the limitation in Subsection
(2)(d).
(8) (a) A liquor storage area shall remain locked at all times other than
those hours and days when liquor sales are authorized by law.
(b)  A restaurant liquor licensee shall store an alcoholic beverage or
alcoholic product in a storage area described in Subsection (7)(e)(i).
(9) (a)  Liquor may not be sold, offered for sale, served, or otherwise
furnished at a restaurant of a restaurant liquor licensee on any day after 12
midnight or before 12 noon.
(b)  The hours of beer sales and service are those specified in Chapter 10,
Beer Retailer Licenses, for on-premise beer licensees.
(10)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold except in connection with an order
for food prepared, sold, and served at the restaurant.
(11)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold, served, or otherwise furnished to
a:
(a)  minor;
(b)  person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;
(c)  known habitual drunkard; or
(d)  known interdicted person.
(12) (a) (i)  Liquor may be sold only at a price fixed by the commission.
(ii)  Liquor may not be sold at a discount price on any date or at any time.
(b)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at less than the cost of the
alcoholic beverage to the restaurant liquor licensee.
(c)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at a special or reduced price that
encourages over consumption or intoxication.
(d)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at a special or reduced price for
only certain hours of a restaurant liquor licensee's business day such as a
"happy hour."
(e) More than one alcoholic beverage may not be sold or served for the price
of a single alcoholic beverage.
(f) An indefinite or unlimited number of alcoholic beverages during a set
period may not be sold or served for a fixed price.
(g)  A restaurant liquor licensee may not engage in a public promotion
involving or offering free an alcoholic beverage to the general public.
(13) An alcoholic beverage may not be purchased for a patron of a restaurant
by:
(a)  the restaurant liquor licensee; or
(b) an employee or agent of the restaurant liquor licensee.
(14) (a)  A person may not bring onto the premises of a restaurant liquor
licensee an alcoholic beverage for on-premise consumption, except a person may
bring, subject to the discretion of the restaurant liquor licensee, bottled
wine onto the premises of a restaurant liquor licensee for on-premise
consumption.
(b)  Except bottled wine under Subsection (14)(a), a restaurant liquor
licensee or an officer, manager, employee, or agent of the restaurant liquor
licensee may not allow:
(i)  a person to bring onto the restaurant premises an alcoholic beverage for
on-premise consumption; or
(ii)  consumption of an alcoholic beverage described in this Subsection (14)
on the restaurant liquor licensee's premises.
(c)  If bottled wine is carried in by a patron, the patron shall deliver the
wine to a server or other representative of the restaurant liquor licensee
upon entering the restaurant.
(d)  A wine service may be performed and a service charge assessed by a
restaurant liquor licensee as authorized by commission rule for wine carried
in by a patron.
(15) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (15)(b), a restaurant liquor
licensee or an employee of the restaurant liquor licensee may not permit a
restaurant patron to carry from the restaurant premises an open container
that:
(i)  is used primarily for drinking purposes; and
(ii)  contains an alcoholic beverage.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (15)(a), a restaurant patron may remove from
the restaurant the unconsumed contents of a bottle of wine purchased in the
restaurant, or brought onto the premises of the restaurant in accordance with
Subsection (14), only if the bottle is recorked or recapped before removal.
(16) (a)  A restaurant liquor licensee may not employ a minor to sell or
dispense an alcoholic beverage.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (16)(a), a minor who is at least 16 years of
age may be employed to enter the sale at a cash register or other sales
recording device.
(17)  An employee of a restaurant liquor licensee, while on duty, may not:
(a)  consume an alcoholic beverage; or
(b)  be intoxicated.
(18) A charge or fee made in connection with the sale, service, or consumption
of liquor may be stated in food or alcoholic beverage menus including:
(a)  a set-up charge;
(b)  a service charge; or
(c)  a chilling fee.
(19) A restaurant liquor licensee shall display in a prominent place in the
restaurant:
(a)  the liquor license that is granted by the department;
(b)  a list of the types and brand names of liquor being served through its
calibrated metered dispensing system; and
(c)  a sign in large letters stating: "Warning: Driving under the influence of
alcohol or drugs is a serious crime that is prosecuted aggressively in Utah."
(20)  A restaurant liquor licensee may not on the premises of the restaurant
liquor licensee:
(a)  engage in or permit any form of gambling, as defined and proscribed in
Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling;
(b)  have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed by Title 76,
Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling; or
(c)  engage in or permit a contest, game, gaming scheme, or gaming device that
requires the risking of something of value for a return or for an outcome when
the return or outcome is based upon an element of chance, excluding the
playing of an amusement device that confers only an immediate and unrecorded
right of replay not exchangeable for value.
(21) (a) A restaurant liquor licensee shall maintain an expense ledger or
record showing in detail:
(i)  quarterly expenditures made separately for:
(A)  malt or brewed beverages;
(B)  set-ups;
(C)  liquor;
(D)  food; and
(E)  all other items required by the department; and
(ii)  sales made separately for:
(A)  malt or brewed beverages;
(B)  set-ups;
(C)  food; and
(D)  all other items required by the department.
(b) A restaurant liquor licensee shall keep a record required by Subsection
(21)(a):
(i)  in a form approved by the department; and
(ii)  current for each three-month period.
(c) An expenditure shall be supported by:
(i)  a delivery ticket;
(ii) an invoice;
(iii)  a receipted bill;
(iv)  a canceled check;
(v)  a petty cash voucher; or
(vi)  other sustaining datum or memorandum.
(d)  In addition to a ledger or record required under Subsection (21)(a), a
restaurant liquor licensee shall maintain accounting and other records and
documents as the department may require.
(e) A restaurant liquor licensee or person acting for the restaurant, who
knowingly forges, falsifies, alters, cancels, destroys, conceals, or removes
an entry in a book of account or other document of the restaurant that is
required to be made, maintained, or preserved by this title or the rules of
the commission for the purpose of deceiving the commission or the department,
or an official or employee of the commission or department, is subject to:
(i)  the suspension or revocation of the restaurant's liquor license; and
(ii)  possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.
(22) (a)  A restaurant liquor licensee may not close or cease operation for a
period longer than 240 hours, unless:
(i)  the restaurant liquor licensee notifies the department in writing at
least seven days before the day on which the restaurant liquor licensee closes
or ceases operation; and
(ii)  the closure or cessation of operation is first approved by the
department.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (22)(a), in the case of emergency closure, the
restaurant liquor licensee shall immediately notify the department by
telephone.
(c) (i)  The department may authorize a closure or cessation of operation for
a period not to exceed 60 days.
(ii)  The department may extend the initial period an additional 30 days upon:
(A)  written request of the restaurant liquor licensee; and
(B)  a showing of good cause.
(iii)  A closure or cessation of operation may not exceed a total of 90 days
without commission approval.
(d) A notice shall include:
(i)  the dates of closure or cessation of operation;
(ii)  the reason for the closure or cessation of operation; and
(iii)  the date on which the restaurant liquor licensee will reopen or resume
operation.
(e)  Failure of the restaurant liquor licensee to provide notice and to obtain
department authorization before closure or cessation of operation results in
an automatic forfeiture of:
(i)  the license; and
(ii)  the unused portion of the license fee for the remainder of the license
year effective immediately.
(f)  Failure of the restaurant liquor licensee to reopen or resume operation
by the approved date results in an automatic forfeiture of:
(i)  the license; and
(ii)  the unused portion of the license fee for the remainder of the license
year.
(23) A restaurant liquor licensee shall maintain at least 70% of its total
restaurant business from the sale of food, which does not include mix for an
alcoholic beverage or service charges.
(24)  A restaurant liquor license may not be transferred from one location to
another, without prior written approval of the commission.
(25) (a)  A person, having been granted a restaurant liquor license may not
sell, transfer, assign, exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to
dispose of the restaurant liquor license to another person whether for
monetary gain or not.
(b)  A restaurant liquor license has no monetary value for the purpose of any
type of disposition.
(26) A server of an alcoholic beverage in a restaurant liquor licensee's
establishment shall keep a written beverage tab for each table or group that
orders or consumes an alcoholic beverage on the premises.  The beverage tab
shall list the type and amount of an alcoholic beverage ordered or consumed.
(27)  A person's willingness to serve an alcoholic beverage may not be made a
condition of employment as a server with a restaurant that has a restaurant
liquor license.
(28)  A restaurant liquor licensee or an employee of the restaurant liquor
licensee may not knowingly allow a person on the licensed premises to, in
violation of Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or Chapter
37a, Utah Drug Paraphernalia Act:
(a)  sell, distribute, possess, or use a controlled substance, as defined in
Section 58-37-2; or
(b)  use, deliver, or possess with the intent to deliver drug paraphernalia,
as defined in Section 58-37a-3.
