32A-4-206 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Operational restrictions.
A person granted an airport lounge liquor license and the employees and
management personnel of the airport lounge shall comply with the following
conditions and requirements.  Failure to comply may result in a suspension or
revocation of the airport lounge liquor license or other disciplinary action
taken against individual employees or management personnel.
(1) (a)  Liquor may not be purchased by an airport lounge liquor licensee
except from a state store or package agency.
(b)  Liquor purchased from a state store or package agency may be transported
by the airport lounge liquor licensee from the place of purchase to the
licensed premises.
(c)  Payment for liquor shall be made in accordance with the rules established
by the commission.
(2)  An airport lounge liquor licensee may sell or provide a primary
spirituous liquor only in a quantity not to exceed 1.5 ounces per beverage
dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing system approved by the
department in accordance with commission rules adopted under this title,
except that:
(a)  spirituous liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered
dispensing system if used as a secondary flavoring ingredient in a beverage
subject to the following restrictions:
(i)  the secondary ingredient may be dispensed only in conjunction with the
purchase of a spirituous primary liquor;
(ii)  the secondary ingredient may not be the only spirituous liquor in the
beverage;
(iii)  the airport lounge liquor licensee shall designate a location where
flavorings are stored on the floor plan provided to the department; and
(iv)  a flavoring container shall be plainly and conspicuously labeled
"flavorings";
(b)  spirituous liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered
dispensing system if used:
(i)  as a flavoring on a dessert; and
(ii)  in the preparation of a flaming food dish, drink, or dessert;
(c)  an airport lounge patron may have no more than 2.5 ounces of spirituous
liquor at a time before the patron; and
(d)  an airport lounge patron may have no more than two spirituous liquor
drinks at a time before the patron, except that an airport lounge patron may
not have two spirituous liquor drinks before the airport lounge patron if one
of the spirituous liquor drinks consists only of the primary spirituous liquor
for the other spirituous liquor drink.
(3) (a) (i)  Wine may be sold and served by the glass or an individual portion
not to exceed five ounces per glass or individual portion.
(ii)  An individual portion may be served to a patron in more than one glass
as long as the total amount of wine does not exceed five ounces.
(iii)  An individual portion of wine is considered to be one alcoholic
beverage under Subsection (7)(c).
(b) (i)  Wine may be sold and served in a container not exceeding 1.5 liters
at a price fixed by the commission to a table of four or more persons.
(ii)  Wine may be sold and served in a container not exceeding 750 milliliters
at a price fixed by the commission to a table of less than four persons.
(c)  A wine service may be performed and a service charge assessed by the
airport lounge liquor licensee as authorized by commission rule for wine
purchased at the airport lounge.
(4) (a)  Heavy beer may be served in an original container not exceeding one
liter at a price fixed by the commission.
(b)  A flavored malt beverage may be served in an original container not
exceeding one liter at a price fixed by the commission.
(c)  A service charge may be assessed by the airport lounge liquor licensee as
authorized by commission rule for heavy beer or a flavored malt beverage
purchased at the airport lounge.
(5) (a) (i)  Subject to Subsection (5)(a)(ii), an airport lounge liquor
licensee may sell beer for on-premise consumption:
(A)  in an open container; and
(B)  on draft.
(ii)  Beer sold pursuant to Subsection (5)(a)(i) shall be in a size of
container that does not exceed two liters, except that beer may not be sold to
an individual patron in a size of container that exceeds one liter.
(b)  An airport lounge liquor licensee that sells beer pursuant to Subsection
(5)(a):
(i)  may do so without obtaining a separate on-premise beer retailer license
from the commission; and
(ii)  shall comply with all appropriate operational restrictions under Chapter
10, Beer Retailer Licenses, that apply to an on-premise beer retailer except
when those restrictions are inconsistent with or less restrictive than the
operational restrictions under this part.
(c)  Failure to comply with the operational restrictions under Chapter 10,
Beer Retailer Licenses, required by Subsection (5)(b) may result in a
suspension or revocation of the airport lounge's:
(i)  state liquor license; and
(ii)  alcoholic beverage license issued by the local authority.
(6)  An alcoholic beverage may not be stored, served, or sold in a place other
than as designated in the airport lounge liquor licensee's application, unless
the airport lounge liquor licensee first applies for and receives approval
from the department for a change of location within the airport lounge.
(7) (a)  A patron may only make a purchase in the airport lounge from and be
served by a person employed, designated, and trained by the airport lounge
liquor licensee to sell, dispense, and serve an alcoholic beverage.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (7)(a), a patron who purchases bottled wine
from an employee of the airport lounge may serve wine from the bottle to the
patron or others at the patron's table.
(c)  An airport lounge patron may have no more than two alcoholic beverages of
any kind at a time before the patron, subject to the limitation in Subsection
(2)(d).
(8)  The liquor storage area shall remain locked at all times other than those
hours and days when liquor sales and service are authorized by law.
(9)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold, offered for sale, served, or
otherwise furnished at an airport lounge on any day after 12 midnight and
before 8 a.m.
(10)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold, served, or otherwise furnished to
a:
(a)  minor;
(b)  person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;
(c)  known habitual drunkard; or
(d)  known interdicted person.
(11) (a) (i)  Liquor may be sold only at a price fixed by the commission.
(ii)  Liquor may not be sold at a discount price on any date or at any time.
(b)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at less than the cost of the
alcoholic beverage to the airport lounge liquor licensee.
(c)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at a special or reduced price that
encourages over consumption or intoxication.
(d)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at a special or reduced price for
only certain hours of the airport lounge liquor licensee's business day such
as a "happy hour."
(e)  More than one alcoholic beverage may not be sold or served for the price
of a single alcoholic beverage.
(f)  An indefinite or unlimited number of alcoholic beverages during a set
period may not be sold or served for a fixed price.
(g)  An airport lounge liquor licensee may not engage in a public promotion
involving or offering free an alcoholic beverage to the general public.
(12)  An alcoholic beverage may not be purchased for a patron of an airport
lounge by:
(a)  the airport lounge liquor licensee; or
(b)  an employee or agent of the airport lounge liquor licensee.
(13) (a)  A person may not bring onto the premises of an airport lounge liquor
licensee an alcoholic beverage for on-premise consumption.
(b)  An airport lounge liquor licensee or an officer, manager, employee, or
agent of the airport lounge liquor licensee may not allow a person to bring
onto the airport lounge premises an alcoholic beverage for on-premise
consumption or allow consumption of the alcoholic beverage on the airport
lounge liquor licensee's premises.
(14)  An airport lounge liquor licensee and an employee of the airport lounge
liquor licensee may not permit a patron to remove an alcoholic beverage from
the airport lounge premises.
(15) (a)  An airport lounge liquor licensee may not employ a minor to sell or
dispense an alcoholic beverage.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (15)(a), a minor who is at least 16 years of
age may be employed to enter the sale at a cash register or other sales
recording device.
(16)  An employee of an airport lounge liquor licensee, while on duty, may
not:
(a)  consume an alcoholic beverage; or
(b)  be intoxicated.
(17)  A charge or fee made in connection with the sale, service, or
consumption of liquor may be stated in a food or alcoholic beverage menu
including:
(a)  a set-up charge;
(b)  a service charge; or
(c)  a chilling fee.
(18)  An airport lounge liquor licensee shall display in a prominent place in
the airport lounge:
(a)  the liquor license that is issued by the department;
(b)  a list of the types and brand names of liquor being served through its
calibrated metered dispensing system; and
(c)  a sign in large letters stating: "Warning: Driving under the influence of
alcohol or drugs is a serious crime that is prosecuted aggressively in Utah."
(19) (a)  An airport lounge liquor licensee shall maintain an expense ledger
or record showing in detail:
(i)  quarterly expenditures made separately for malt or brewed beverages,
liquor, and all other items required by the department; and
(ii)  sales made separately for malt or brewed beverages, food, and all other
items required by the department.
(b)  An airport lounge liquor licensee shall keep a record required by
Subsection (19)(a):
(i)  in a form approved by the department; and
(ii)  current for each three-month period.
(c) An expenditure shall be supported by:
(i)  a delivery ticket;
(ii)  an invoice;
(iii)  a receipted bill;
(iv)  a canceled check;
(v)  a petty cash voucher; or
(vi)  other sustaining datum or memorandum.
(d)  In addition to a ledger or record required by Subsection (19)(a), an
airport lounge liquor licensee shall maintain accounting and other records and
documents as the department may require.
(e)  An airport lounge liquor licensee or person acting for the airport
lounge, who knowingly forges, falsifies, alters, cancels, destroys, conceals,
or removes an entry in a book of account or other document of the airport
lounge required to be made, maintained, or preserved by this title or the
rules of the commission for the purpose of deceiving the commission, the
department, or an official or employee of the commission or department, is
subject to:
(i)  the immediate suspension or revocation of the airport lounge's liquor
license; and
(ii)  possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.
(20)  An airport lounge liquor license may not be transferred from one
location to another, without prior written approval of the commission.
(21) (a)  An airport lounge liquor licensee may not sell, transfer, assign,
exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the airport lounge
liquor license to another person, whether for monetary gain or not.
(b)  An airport lounge liquor license has no monetary value for the purpose of
any type of disposition.
(22)  A server of an alcoholic beverage in an airport lounge liquor licensee's
establishment shall keep a written beverage tab for each table or group that
orders or consumes an alcoholic beverage on the premises.  The beverage tab
shall list the type and amount of an alcoholic beverage ordered or consumed.
(23)  An airport lounge liquor licensee's premises may not be leased for a
private function.
(24)  An airport lounge liquor licensee may not on the premises of the airport
lounge liquor licensee:
(a)  engage in or permit any form of gambling, as defined and proscribed in
Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling;
(b)  have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed by Title 76,
Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling; or
(c)  engage in or permit a contest, game, gaming scheme, or gaming device that
requires the risking of something of value for a return or for an outcome when
the return or outcome is based upon an element of chance, excluding the
playing of an amusement device that confers only an immediate and unrecorded
right of replay not exchangeable for value.
(25)  An airport lounge liquor licensee or an employee of the airport lounge
liquor licensee may not knowingly allow a person on the licensed premises to,
in violation of Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or
Chapter 37a, Utah Drug Paraphernalia Act:
(a)  sell, distribute, possess, or use a controlled substance, as defined in
Section 58-37-2; or
(b)  use, deliver, or possess with the intent to deliver drug paraphernalia,
as defined in Section 58-37a-3.
