32A-4-307.   Operational restrictions.
A person granted a limited restaurant license and the employees and management
personnel of the limited restaurant shall comply with the following conditions
and requirements.  Failure to comply may result in a suspension or revocation
of the license or other disciplinary action taken against individual employees
or management personnel.
(1) (a)  Wine and heavy beer may not be purchased by a limited restaurant
licensee except from a state store or package agency.
(b)  Wine and heavy beer purchased from a state store or package agency may be
transported by the limited restaurant licensee from the place of purchase to
the licensed premises.
(c)  Payment for wine and heavy beer shall be made in accordance with rules
established by the commission.
(2) (a)  A limited restaurant licensee may not sell, serve, or allow
consumption of the products listed in Subsection (2)(c) on the premises of the
limited restaurant.
(b)  A product listed in Subsection (2)(c) may not be on the premises of the
limited restaurant except for use:
(i)  as a flavoring on a dessert; and
(ii)  in the preparation of a flaming food dish, drink, or dessert.
(c)  This Subsection (2) applies to:
(i)  spirituous liquor; and
(ii) a flavored malt beverage.
(3) (a) (i)  Wine may be sold and served by the glass or an individual portion
not to exceed five ounces per glass or individual portion.
(ii)  An individual portion may be served to a patron in more than one glass
as long as the total amount of wine does not exceed five ounces.
(iii)  An individual portion of wine is considered to be one alcoholic
beverage under Subsection (7)(g).
(b) (i)  Wine may be sold and served in a container not exceeding 1.5 liters
at a price fixed by the commission to a table of four or more persons.
(ii)  Wine may be sold and served in a container not exceeding 750 milliliters
at a price fixed by the commission to a table of less than four persons.
(c)  A wine service may be performed and a service charge assessed by the
limited restaurant licensee as authorized by commission rule for wine
purchased at the limited restaurant.
(4) (a)  Heavy beer may be served in an original container not exceeding one
liter at a price fixed by the commission.
(b)  A service charge may be assessed by the limited restaurant licensee as
authorized by commission rule for heavy beer purchased at the limited
restaurant.
(5) (a) (i)  Subject to Subsection (5)(a)(ii), a limited restaurant licensee
may sell beer for on-premise consumption:
(A)  in an open container; and
(B)  on draft.
(ii)  Beer sold pursuant to Subsection (5)(a)(i) shall be in a size of
container that does not exceed two liters, except that beer may not be sold to
an individual patron in a size of container that exceeds one liter.
(b)  A limited restaurant licensee that sells beer pursuant to Subsection
(5)(a):
(i)  may do so without obtaining a separate on-premise beer retailer license
from the commission; and
(ii)  shall comply with all appropriate operational restrictions under Chapter
10, Beer Retailer Licenses, that apply to an on-premise beer retailer except
when those restrictions are inconsistent with or less restrictive than the
operational restrictions under this part.
(c)  Failure to comply with the operational restrictions under Chapter 10,
Beer Retailer Licenses, required by Subsection (5)(b) may result in a
suspension or revocation of the limited restaurant's:
(i)  limited restaurant license; and
(ii)  alcoholic beverage license issued by the local authority.
(6)  Wine, heavy beer, and beer may not be stored, served, or sold in a place
other than as designated in the limited restaurant licensee's application,
unless the limited restaurant licensee first applies for and receives approval
from the department for a change of location within the limited restaurant.
(7) (a) (i)  As used in this Subsection (7), and subject to Subsection
(7)(a)(ii), "grandfathered bar structure" means a bar structure in a
restaurant that:
(A)  as of May 11, 2009 has:
(I) (Aa)  patron seating at the bar structure;
(Bb)  a partition at one or more locations on the bar structure that is along
the width of the bar structure; and
(Cc)  facilities for the dispensing or storage of an alcoholic beverage on the
portion of the bar structure that is separated by the partition described in
Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A)(I)(Bb); or
(II) (Aa)  patron seating at the bar structure;
(Bb)  a partition at one or more locations on the bar structure that is along
the length of the bar structure; and
(Cc)  facilities for the dispensing or storage of an alcoholic beverage:
(Ii)  on the portion of the bar structure that is separated by a partition
described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A)(II)(Bb); or
(IIii)  adjacent to the bar structure in a manner visible to a patron sitting
at the bar structure;
(B)  is not operational as of May 12, 2009, and:
(I)  an applicant for a limited restaurant license under this chapter:
(Aa)  has as of May 12, 2009, a building permit to construct the restaurant;
(Bb)  is as of May 12, 2009, actively engaged in the construction of the
restaurant, as defined by rule made by the commission in accordance with Title
63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act; and
(Cc)  is granted a limited restaurant license by the commission under this
chapter by no later than December 31, 2009; and
(II)  the restaurant described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(C)(I) has a bar
structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A);
(C)  as of May 12, 2009, has no patron seating at the bar structure; or
(D)  is not operational as of May 12, 2009, and:
(I)  an applicant for a limited restaurant license under this chapter:
(Aa)  has as of May 12, 2009, a building permit to construct the restaurant;
(Bb)  is as of May 12, 2009, actively engaged in the construction of the
restaurant, as defined by rule made by the commission in accordance with Title
63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act; and
(Cc)  is granted a limited restaurant license by the commission under this
chapter by no later than December 31, 2009; and
(II)  the restaurant described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(D)(I) has a bar
structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(C).
(ii)  "Grandfathered bar structure" does not include a grandfathered bar
structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i) on or after the day on which a
restaurant remodels the grandfathered bar structure, as defined by rule made
by the commission in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act.
(iii)  Subject to Subsection (7)(a)(ii), a grandfathered bar structure remains
a grandfathered bar structure notwithstanding whether the restaurant undergoes
a change of ownership.
(b) (i)  A patron may only make an alcoholic beverage purchase in a limited
restaurant from and be served by a person employed, designated, and trained by
the limited restaurant licensee to sell and serve an alcoholic beverage.
(ii)  Only a person employed, designated, and trained by a limited restaurant
licensee may sell, serve, or deliver an alcoholic beverage to a patron of a
restaurant.
(iii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (7)(b)(i) or (ii), a patron who purchases
bottled wine from an employee of the limited restaurant licensee or carries
bottled wine onto the premises of the limited restaurant pursuant to
Subsection (14) may thereafter serve wine from the bottle to the patron or
others at the patron's table.
(c) A patron may consume an alcoholic beverage only:
(i)  at:
(A)  the patron's table;
(B)  a counter;
(C)  a grandfathered bar structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or
(B); and
(ii)  where food is served.
(d) (i)  An alcoholic beverage may not be served to or consumed by a patron at
a bar structure that is not a grandfathered bar structure described in
Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or (B).
(ii)  A patron who is 21 years of age or older may:
(A)  sit at a grandfathered bar structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A)
or (B);
(B)  be served an alcoholic beverage at a grandfathered bar structure
described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or (B); and
(C)  consume an alcoholic beverage at a grandfathered bar structure described
in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or (B).
(iii)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(d)(iv), a limited restaurant
licensee may not permit a minor to, and a minor may not:
(A)  sit at a grandfathered bar structure described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A)
or (B); or
(B)  consume food or beverages at a bar structure described in Subsection
(7)(a)(i)(A) or (B).
(iv) (A)  A minor may be at a grandfathered bar structure described in
Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or (B) if the minor is employed by a limited
restaurant licensee:
(I)  as provided in Subsection (16)(b); or
(II)  to perform maintenance and cleaning services during an hour when the
limited restaurant licensee is not open for business.
(B)  A minor may momentarily pass by a grandfathered bar structure described
in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(A) or (B) without remaining or sitting at the bar
structure en route to an area of a limited restaurant licensee's premises in
which the minor is permitted to be.
(e)  Except as provided in Subsection (14), a limited restaurant licensee may
dispense an alcoholic beverage only:
(i)  from:
(A)  a grandfathered bar structure;
(B)  an area adjacent to a grandfathered bar structure that is visible to a
patron sitting at the grandfathered bar structure if that area is used to
dispense an alcoholic beverage or alcoholic product as of May 12, 2009; or
(C)  an area that is:
(I)  separated from an area for the consumption of food by a restaurant patron
by a solid, opaque, permanent structural barrier such that the facilities for
the dispensing or storage of an alcoholic beverage or alcoholic product are:
(Aa)  not readily visible to a restaurant patron; and
(Bb)  not accessible by a restaurant patron; and
(II)  apart from an area used for:
(Aa)  dining;
(Bb)  staging; or
(Cc)  as a lobby or waiting area;
(ii)  if the limited restaurant licensee uses an alcoholic beverage or
alcoholic product that is:
(A)  stored in an area described in Subsection (7)(e)(i); or
(B)  on the premises of the limited restaurant licensee in an area not
described in Subsection (7)(e)(i) if:
(I)  immediately before the alcoholic beverage or alcoholic product is
dispensed it is in an unopened package;
(II)  the unopened package is taken to an area described in Subsection
(7)(e)(i) before it is opened; and
(III)  once opened, the package is kept in an area described in Subsection
(7)(e)(i); and
(iii)  if any instrument or equipment used to dispense an alcoholic beverage
is located in an area described in Subsection (7)(e)(i).
(f) (i)  A limited restaurant licensee that has a grandfathered bar structure
may receive a credit for purchases from a state store or package agency if:
(A)  the limited restaurant licensee completes a remodel of the grandfathered
bar structure by no later than December 31, 2011;
(B)  the remodeling described in Subsection (7)(f)(i)(A) results in the
restaurant engaging in an activity described in Subsection (7)(e) only in an
area described in Subsection (7)(e)(i)(C);
(C)  the limited restaurant licensee requests the credit by no later than
April 1, 2012;
(D)  the department determines that the limited restaurant licensee has
completed a remodel described in Subsections (7)(f)(i)(A) and (B); and
(E)  the department authorizes the credit, including the amount of the credit
under Subsection (7)(f)(ii), on the basis that:
(I)  the limited restaurant licensee complied with this Subsection (7); and
(II)  the aggregate of credits authorized under this Subsection (7)(f) and
Subsection 32A-4-106(7)(f) before the current authorization does not exceed
the amount described in Subsection (7)(f)(v)(A).
(ii)  The amount of the credit described in this Subsection (7)(f) is the
lesser of:
(A)  the actual costs of the remodel as evidenced by receipts, copies of which
are provided to the department as part of the request for the credit; or
(B)  $30,000.
(iii)  For a limited restaurant licensee, a credit under this Subsection
(7)(f):
(A)  begins on the day on which the department authorizes the credit under
Subsection (7)(f)(i); and
(B)  ends the day on which the limited restaurant licensee uses all of the
credit.
(iv)  The department shall by contract provide for how a package agency
accounts for a credit purchase made at the package agency by a limited
restaurant licensee under this Subsection (7)(f).
(v) (A)  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Subsection (7)(f), the
department may not authorize a credit if the aggregate of credits authorized
under this Subsection (7)(f) and Subsection 32A-4-106(7)(f) before the
department authorizes the credit exceeds:
(I)  $1,000,000, for the aggregate of credits under this Subsection (7)(f) and
Subsection 32A-4-106(7)(f), if the credit could be used on or before June 30,
2010; and
(II)  subject to Subsection (7)(v)(A)(I), $1,090,000 for the aggregate of all
credits that can be authorized under this Subsection (7)(f) and Subsection
32A-4-106(7)(f).
(B)  The department shall authorize credits in the order that the department
receives a request described in Subsection (7)(f)(i)(C) from a limited
restaurant licensee requesting a credit under this Subsection (7)(f).
(g)  A limited restaurant patron may have no more than two alcoholic beverages
of any kind at a time before the patron.
(8) (a) An alcoholic beverage storage area shall remain locked at all times
other than those hours and days when alcoholic beverage sales are authorized
by law.
(b)  A limited restaurant licensee shall store an alcoholic beverage or
alcoholic product in a storage area described in Subsection (7)(e)(i).
(9) (a)  Wine and heavy beer may not be sold, offered for sale, served, or
otherwise furnished at a limited restaurant on any day after 12 midnight or
before 12 noon.
(b)  The hours of beer sales and service are those specified in Chapter 10,
Beer Retailer Licenses, for on-premise beer licensees.
(10) An alcoholic beverage may not be sold except in connection with an order
of food prepared, sold, and served at the limited restaurant.
(11)  Wine, heavy beer, and beer may not be sold, served, or otherwise
furnished to a:
(a)  minor;
(b)  person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;
(c)  known habitual drunkard; or
(d)  known interdicted person.
(12) (a) (i)  Wine and heavy beer may be sold only at a price fixed by the
commission.
(ii)  Wine and heavy beer may not be sold at a discount price on any date or
at any time.
(b) An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at less than the cost of the
alcoholic beverage to the limited restaurant licensee.
(c)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at a special or reduced price that
encourages over consumption or intoxication.
(d)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at a special or reduced price for
only certain hours of the limited restaurant licensee's business day such as a
"happy hour."
(e) More than one alcoholic beverage may not be sold or served for the price
of a single alcoholic beverage.
(f) An indefinite or unlimited number of alcoholic beverages during a set
period may not be sold or served for a fixed price.
(g)  A limited restaurant licensee may not engage in a public promotion
involving or offering free alcoholic beverages to the general public.
(13) An alcoholic beverage may not be purchased for a patron of the limited
restaurant by:
(a)  the limited restaurant licensee; or
(b) an employee or agent of the limited restaurant licensee.
(14) (a)  A person may not bring onto the premises of a limited restaurant
licensee an alcoholic beverage for on-premise consumption, except a person may
bring, subject to the discretion of the limited restaurant licensee, bottled
wine onto the premises of a limited restaurant licensee for on-premise
consumption.
(b)  Except bottled wine under Subsection (14)(a), a limited restaurant
licensee or an officer, manager, employee, or agent of a limited restaurant
licensee may not allow:
(i)  a person to bring onto the limited restaurant premises an alcoholic
beverage for on-premise consumption; or
(ii)  consumption of an alcoholic beverage described in Subsection (14)(b)(i)
on the limited restaurant licensee's premises.
(c)  If bottled wine is carried in by a patron, the patron shall deliver the
wine to a server or other representative of the limited restaurant licensee
upon entering the limited restaurant.
(d)  A wine service may be performed and a service charge assessed by the
limited restaurant licensee as authorized by commission rule for wine carried
in by a patron.
(15) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (15)(b), a limited restaurant
licensee and an employee of the limited restaurant licensee may not permit a
restaurant patron to carry from the limited restaurant premises an open
container that:
(i)  is used primarily for drinking purposes; and
(ii)  contains an alcoholic beverage.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (15)(a), a patron may remove the unconsumed
contents of a bottle of wine if before removal, the bottle is recorked or
recapped.
(16) (a)  A limited restaurant licensee may not employ a minor to sell or
dispense an alcoholic beverage.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (16)(a), a minor who is at least 16 years of
age may be employed to enter the sale at a cash register or other sales
recording device.
(17)  An employee of a limited restaurant licensee, while on duty, may not:
(a)  consume an alcoholic beverage; or
(b)  be intoxicated.
(18)  A charge or fee made in connection with the sale, service, or
consumption of wine or heavy beer may be stated in food or alcoholic beverage
menus including:
(a)  a service charge; or
(b)  a chilling fee.
(19)  A limited restaurant licensee shall display in a prominent place in the
restaurant:
(a)  the limited restaurant license that is granted by the department; and
(b)  a sign in large letters stating: "Warning: Driving under the influence of
alcohol or drugs is a serious crime that is prosecuted aggressively in Utah."
(20)  A limited restaurant licensee may not on the premises of the restaurant:
(a)  engage in or permit any form of gambling, as defined and proscribed in
Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling;
(b)  have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed by Title 76,
Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling; or
(c)  engage in or permit a contest, game, gaming scheme, or gaming device that
requires the risking of something of value for a return or for an outcome when
the return or outcome is based upon an element of chance, excluding the
playing of an amusement device that confers only an immediate and unrecorded
right of replay not exchangeable for value.
(21) (a) A limited restaurant licensee shall maintain an expense ledger or
record showing in detail:
(i)  quarterly expenditures made separately for:
(A)  wine;
(B)  heavy beer;
(C)  beer;
(D)  food; and
(E)  all other items required by the department; and
(ii)  sales made separately for:
(A)  wine;
(B)  heavy beer;
(C)  beer;
(D)  food; and
(E)  all other items required by the department.
(b) A limited restaurant licensee shall keep a record required by Subsection
(21)(a):
(i)  in a form approved by the department; and
(ii)  current for each three-month period.
(c) An expenditure shall be supported by:
(i)  a delivery ticket;
(ii) an invoice;
(iii)  a receipted bill;
(iv)  a canceled check;
(v)  a petty cash voucher; or
(vi)  other sustaining datum or memorandum.
(d)  In addition to the ledger or record maintained under Subsections (21)(a)
through (c), a limited restaurant licensee shall maintain accounting and other
records and documents as the department may require.
(e)  Any limited restaurant licensee or person acting for the restaurant, who
knowingly forges, falsifies, alters, cancels, destroys, conceals, or removes
an entry in a book of account or other document of the limited restaurant that
is required to be made, maintained, or preserved by this title or the rules of
the commission for the purpose of deceiving the commission, the department, or
an official or employee of the commission or department, is subject to:
(i)  the suspension or revocation of the limited restaurant's license; and
(ii)  possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.
(22) (a)  A limited restaurant licensee may not close or cease operation for a
period longer than 240 hours, unless:
(i)  the limited restaurant licensee notifies the department in writing at
least seven days before the day on which the limited restaurant licensee
closes or ceases operation; and
(ii)  the closure or cessation of operation is first approved by the
department.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (22)(a), in the case of emergency closure, the
limited restaurant licensee shall immediately notify the department by
telephone.
(c) (i)  Subject to Subsection (22)(c)(iii), the department may authorize a
closure or cessation of operation for a period not to exceed 60 days.
(ii)  The department may extend the initial period an additional 30 days upon:
(A)  written request of the limited restaurant licensee; and
(B)  a showing of good cause.
(iii)  A closure or cessation of operation may not exceed a total of 90 days
without commission approval.
(d) A notice required by Subsection (22)(a) shall include:
(i)  the dates of closure or cessation of operation;
(ii)  the reason for the closure or cessation of operation; and
(iii)  the date on which the limited restaurant licensee will reopen or resume
operation.
(e)  Failure of the limited restaurant licensee to provide notice and to
obtain department authorization before closure or cessation of operation
results in an automatic forfeiture of:
(i)  the limited restaurant license; and
(ii)  the unused portion of the license fee for the remainder of the license
year effective immediately.
(f)  Failure of the limited restaurant licensee to reopen or resume operation
by the approved date results in an automatic forfeiture of:
(i)  the limited restaurant license; and
(ii)  the unused portion of the license fee for the remainder of the license
year.
(23) A limited restaurant licensee shall maintain at least 70% of its total
restaurant business from the sale of food, which does not include service
charges.
(24)  A limited restaurant license may not be transferred from one location to
another, without prior written approval of the commission.
(25) (a)  A limited restaurant licensee may not sell, transfer, assign,
exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the limited
restaurant license to another person whether for monetary gain or not.
(b)  A limited restaurant license has no monetary value for the purpose of any
type of disposition.
(26) (a) A server of wine, heavy beer, and beer in a limited restaurant
licensee's establishment shall keep a written beverage tab for each table or
group that orders or consumes an alcoholic beverage on the premises.
(b)  The beverage tab required by Subsection (26)(a) shall list the type and
amount of an alcoholic beverage ordered or consumed.
(27)  A limited restaurant licensee may not make a person's willingness to
serve an alcoholic beverage a condition of employment as a server with the
limited restaurant.
(28)  A limited restaurant licensee or an employee of the limited restaurant
licensee may not knowingly allow a person on the licensed premises to, in
violation of Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or Chapter
37a, Utah Drug Paraphernalia Act:
(a)  sell, distribute, possess, or use a controlled substance, as defined in
Section 58-37-2; or
(b)  use, deliver, or possess with the intent to deliver drug paraphernalia,
as defined in Section 58-37a-3.
