32A-4-406.   Operational restrictions.
A person granted an on-premise banquet license and the employees and
management personnel of the on-premise banquet licensee shall comply with this
title, the rules of the commission, and the following conditions and
requirements.  Failure to comply may result in a suspension or revocation of
the on-premise banquet license or other disciplinary action taken against
individual employees or management personnel.
(1)  A person involved in the sale or service of an alcoholic beverage under
the on-premise banquet license shall:
(a)  be under the supervision and direction of the on-premise banquet
licensee; and
(b)  complete the seminar provided for in Section 62A-15-401.
(2) (a)  Liquor may not be purchased by an on-premise banquet licensee except
from a state store or package agency.
(b)  Liquor purchased from a state store or package agency may be transported
by the on-premise banquet licensee from the place of purchase to the licensed
premises.
(c)  Payment for liquor shall be made in accordance with rules established by
the commission.
(3) An alcoholic beverage may be sold or provided at a banquet by an on-
premise banquet licensee subject to the restrictions set forth in this
Subsection (3).
(a)  An on-premise banquet licensee may sell or provide a primary spirituous
liquor only in a quantity not to exceed 1.5 ounces per beverage dispensed
through a calibrated metered dispensing system approved by the department in
accordance with commission rules adopted under this title, except that:
(i)  spirituous liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered
dispensing system if used as a secondary flavoring ingredient in a beverage
subject to the following restrictions:
(A)  the secondary ingredient may be dispensed only in conjunction with the
purchase of a primary spirituous liquor;
(B)  the secondary ingredient may not be the only spirituous liquor in the
beverage;
(C)  the on-premise banquet licensee shall designate a location where
flavorings are stored on the floor plan provided to the department; and
(D) a flavoring container shall be plainly and conspicuously labeled
"flavorings";
(ii)  spirituous liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered
dispensing system if used:
(A)  as a flavoring on a dessert; and
(B)  in the preparation of a flaming food dish, drink, or dessert;
(iii) an attendee may have no more than 2.5 ounces of spirituous liquor at a
time before the attendee; and
(iv) an attendee may have no more than one spirituous liquor drink at a time
before the attendee.
(b) (i) (A)  Wine may be sold and served by the glass or an individual portion
not to exceed five ounces per glass or individual portion.
(B)  An individual portion may be served to an attendee in more than one glass
as long as the total amount of wine does not exceed five ounces.
(C)  An individual portion of wine is considered to be one alcoholic beverage
under Subsection (5)(c).
(ii)  Wine may be sold and served in a container not exceeding 1.5 liters at a
price fixed by the commission.
(iii)  A wine service may be performed and a service charge assessed by the
on-premise banquet licensee as authorized by commission rule for wine
purchased on the banquet premises.
(c) (i)  Heavy beer may be served in an original container not exceeding one
liter at a price fixed by the commission.
(ii)  A flavored malt beverage may be served in an original container not
exceeding one liter at a price fixed by the commission.
(iii)  A service charge may be assessed by the on-premise banquet licensee as
authorized by commission rule for heavy beer or a flavored malt beverage
purchased on the banquet premises.
(d) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(d)(ii), beer may be sold and
served for on-premise consumption:
(A)  in an open container; and
(B)  on draft.
(ii)  Beer sold pursuant to Subsection (3)(d)(i) shall be in a size of
container that does not exceed two liters, except that beer may not be sold to
an individual attendee in a container size that exceeds one liter.
(4) An alcoholic beverage may not be stored, served, or sold in any place
other than as designated in the on-premise banquet licensee's application,
except that additional locations in or on the premises of an on-premise
banquet licensee may be approved in accordance with guidelines approved by the
commission as provided in Subsection 32A-4-402(2).
(5) (a)  An attendee may only make an alcoholic beverage purchase from and be
served by a person employed, designated, and trained by the on-premise banquet
licensee to sell and serve an alcoholic beverage.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (5)(a), an attendee who purchases bottled wine
from an employee of the on-premise banquet licensee may thereafter serve wine
from the bottle to the attendee or others at the attendee's table.
(c) An attendee may have no more than two alcoholic beverages of any kind at a
time before the attendee, subject to the limitation of Subsection (3)(a)(iv).
(6)  The alcoholic beverage storage area shall remain locked at all times
other than those hours and days when alcoholic beverage sales are authorized
by law.
(7) An alcoholic beverage may be offered for sale, sold, served, or otherwise
furnished by an on-premise banquet licensee from 10 a.m. to 1 a.m. seven days
a week:
(a)  at a banquet; or
(b)  in connection with room service.
(8) An alcoholic beverage may not be sold, served, or otherwise furnished to
a:
(a)  minor;
(b)  person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;
(c)  known habitual drunkard; or
(d)  known interdicted person.
(9) (a) (i)  Liquor may be sold only at a price fixed by the commission.
(ii)  Liquor may not be sold at a discount price on any date or at any time.
(b) An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at less than the cost of the
alcoholic beverage to the on-premise banquet licensee.
(c)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at a special or reduced price that
encourages over consumption or intoxication.
(d)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at a special or reduced price for
only certain hours of the on-premise banquet licensee's business day such as a
"happy hour."
(e) More than one alcoholic beverage may not be sold or served for the price
of a single alcoholic beverage.
(f)  An on-premise banquet licensee may not engage in a public promotion
involving or offering free alcoholic beverages to the general public.
(10) An alcoholic beverage may not be purchased for an attendee by:
(a)  the on-premise banquet licensee; or
(b) an employee or agent of the on-premise banquet licensee.
(11)  An attendee of a banquet may not bring an alcoholic beverage into or
onto, or remove an alcoholic beverage from the premises of a banquet.
(12) (a)  Except as otherwise provided in this title, the sale and service of
an alcoholic beverage by an on-premise banquet licensee at a banquet shall be
made only for consumption at the location of the banquet.
(b)  The host of a banquet, an attendee, or a person other than the on-premise
banquet licensee or an employee of the on-premise banquet licensee, may not
remove an alcoholic beverage from the premises of the banquet.
(13)  An on-premise banquet licensee employee shall remain at the banquet at
all times when an alcoholic beverage is sold, served, or consumed at the
banquet.
(14) (a)  An on-premise banquet licensee may not leave an unsold alcoholic
beverage at the banquet following the conclusion of the banquet.
(b)  At the conclusion of a banquet, the on-premise banquet licensee or an
employee of the on-premise banquet licensee, shall:
(i)  destroy an opened and unused alcoholic beverage that is not saleable,
under conditions established by the department; and
(ii)  return to the on-premise banquet licensee's approved locked storage area
any:
(A)  opened and unused alcoholic beverage that is saleable; and
(B)  unopened container of an alcoholic beverage.
(15)  Except as provided in Subsection (14), an open or sealed container of an
alcoholic beverage not sold or consumed at a banquet:
(a)  shall be stored by the on-premise banquet licensee in the on-premise
banquet licensee's approved locked storage area; and
(b)  may be used at more than one banquet.
(16)  An on-premise banquet licensee may not employ a minor to sell, serve,
dispense, or otherwise furnish an alcoholic beverage in connection with the
on-premise banquet licensee's banquet and room service activities.
(17)  An employee of an on-premise banquet licensee, while on duty, may not:
(a)  consume an alcoholic beverage; or
(b)  be intoxicated.
(18)  An on-premise banquet licensee shall prominently display at a banquet at
which an alcoholic beverage is sold or served:
(a)  a copy of the licensee's on-premise banquet license; and
(b)  a sign in large letters stating: "Warning: Driving under the influence of
alcohol or drugs is a serious crime that is prosecuted aggressively in Utah."
(19)  An on-premise banquet licensee may not on the premises of the hotel,
resort facility, sports center, or convention center:
(a)  engage in or permit any form of gambling, as defined and proscribed in
Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling;
(b)  have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed by Title 76,
Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling; or
(c)  engage in or permit a contest, game, gaming scheme, or gaming device that
requires the risking of something of value for a return or for an outcome when
the return or outcome is based upon an element of chance, excluding the
playing of an amusement device that confers only an immediate and unrecorded
right of replay not exchangeable for value.
(20) (a)  An on-premise banquet licensee shall maintain accounting and such
other records and documents as the commission or department may require.
(b)  An on-premise banquet licensee or person acting for the on-premise
banquet licensee, who knowingly forges, falsifies, alters, cancels, destroys,
conceals, or removes an entry in a book of account or other document of the
on-premise banquet licensee required to be made, maintained, or preserved by
this title or the rules of the commission for the purpose of deceiving the
commission, the department, or an official or employee of the commission or
department, is subject to:
(i)  the suspension or revocation of the on-premise banquet license; and
(ii)  possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.
(21) (a)  For the purpose described in Subsection (21)(b), an on-premise
banquet licensee shall provide the department with advance notice of a
scheduled banquet in accordance with rules made by the commission in
accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(b)  The advance notice required by Subsection (21)(a) is required to provide
any of the following the opportunity to conduct a random inspection of a
banquet:
(i)  an authorized representative of the commission or the department; or
(ii)  a law enforcement officer.
(22)  An on-premise banquet licensee shall maintain at least 50% of its total
annual banquet gross receipts from the sale of food, not including:
(a)  mix for an alcoholic beverage; and
(b) a charge in connection with the service of an alcoholic beverage.
(23)  A person may not transfer an on-premise banquet license from one
business location to another without prior written approval of the commission.
(24) (a)  An on-premise banquet licensee may not sell, transfer, assign,
exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the license to
another person, whether for monetary gain or not.
(b)  An on-premise banquet license has no monetary value for the purpose of
any type of disposition.
(25) (a)  Room service of an alcoholic beverage to a guest room of a hotel or
resort facility shall be provided in person by an on-premise banquet licensee
employee only to an adult guest in the guest room.
(b) An alcoholic beverage may not be left outside a guest room for retrieval
by a guest.
(c)  An on-premise banquet licensee may only provide an alcoholic beverage for
room service in a sealed container.
(26)  An on-premise banquet licensee or an employee of the on-premise banquet
licensee may not knowingly allow a person on a banquet location of a hotel,
resort facility, sports center, or convention center to, in violation of Title
58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or Chapter 37a, Utah Drug
Paraphernalia Act:
(a)  sell, distribute, possess, or use a controlled substance, as defined in
Section 58-37-2; or
(b)  use, deliver, or possess with the intent to deliver drug paraphernalia,
as defined in Section 58-37a-3.
