34A-1-201.   Commissioner -- Appointment -- Removal -- Compensation -- Qualifications -- Responsibilities -- Reports.

(1) (a)  The chief administrative officer of the commission is the commissioner, who shall be appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate.

(b)  The commissioner shall serve at the pleasure of the governor.

(c)  The commissioner shall receive a salary established by the governor within the salary range fixed by the Legislature in Title 67, Chapter 22, State Officer Compensation.

(d)  The commissioner shall be experienced in administration, management, and coordination of complex organizations.

(2) (a)  The commissioner shall serve full-time.

(b) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b)(ii), the commissioner may not:

(A)  hold any other office of this state, another state, or the federal government except in an ex officio capacity; or

(B)  serve on any committee of any political party.

(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(b)(i), the commissioner may:

(A)  hold a nominal position or title if it is required by law as a condition for the state participating in an appropriation or allotment of any money, property, or service that may be made or allotted for the commission; or

(B)  serve as the chief administrative officer of any division, office, or bureau that is established within the commission.

(iii)  If the commissioner holds a position as permitted under Subsection (2)(b)(ii), the commissioner may not be paid any additional compensation for holding the position.

(3)  Before beginning the duties as a commissioner, an appointed commissioner shall take and subscribe the constitutional oath of office and file the oath with the Division of Archives.

(4)  The commissioner shall:

(a)  administer and supervise the commission in compliance with Title 67, Chapter 19, Utah State Personnel Management Act;

(b)  approve the proposed budget of each division and the Appeals Board;

(c)  approve all applications for federal grants or assistance in support of any commission program; and

(d)  fulfill such other duties as assigned by the Legislature or as assigned by the governor that are not inconsistent with this title or Title 34, Labor in General.

(5) (a)  The commissioner shall report annually to the Legislature and the governor concerning the operations of the commission and the programs that the commission administers.

(b)  If federal law requires that a report to the governor or Legislature be given concerning the commission or a program administered by the commission, the commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall make that report.



Amended by Chapter 336, 2011 General Session

