34A-1-303.   Review of administrative decision.
(1)  A decision entered by an administrative law judge under this title is the
final order of the commission unless a further appeal is initiated:
(a)  under this title; and
(b)  in accordance with the rules of the commission governing the review.
(2) (a)  Unless otherwise provided, a person who is entitled to appeal a
decision of an administrative law judge under this title may appeal the
decision by filing a motion for review with the Division of Adjudication.
(b) (i)  Unless a party in interest to the appeal requests in accordance with
Subsection (3) that the appeal be heard by the Appeals Board, the commissioner
shall hear the review in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative
Procedures Act.
(ii)  A decision of the commissioner is a final order of the commission unless
set aside by the court of appeals.
(c) (i)  If in accordance with Subsection (3) a party in interest to the
appeal requests that the appeal be heard by the Appeals Board, the Appeals
Board shall hear the review in accordance with:
(A)  Section 34A-1-205; and
(B) Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(ii)  A decision of the Appeals Board is a final order of the commission
unless set aside by the court of appeals.
(3)  A party in interest may request that an appeal be heard by the Appeals
Board by filing the request with the Division of Adjudication:
(a)  as part of the motion for review; or
(b)  if requested by a party in interest who did not file a motion for review,
within 20 days of the date the motion for review is filed with the Division of
Adjudication.
(4) (a)  On appeal, the commissioner or the Appeals Board may:
(i)  affirm the decision of an administrative law judge;
(ii)  modify the decision of an administrative law judge;
(iii)  return the case to an administrative law judge for further action as
directed; or
(iv)  reverse the findings, conclusions, and decision of an administrative law
judge.
(b)  The commissioner or Appeals Board may not conduct a trial de novo of the
case.
(c)  The commissioner or Appeals Board may base its decision on:
(i)  the evidence previously submitted in the case; or
(ii)  on written argument or written supplemental evidence requested by the
commissioner or Appeals Board.
(d)  The commissioner or Appeals Board may permit the parties to:
(i)  file briefs or other papers; or
(ii)  conduct oral argument.
(e)  The commissioner or Appeals Board shall promptly notify the parties to
any proceedings before the commissioner or Appeals Board of its decision,
including its findings and conclusions.
(5) (a)  Each decision of a member of the Appeals Board shall represent the
member's independent judgment.
(b)  A member of the Appeals Board may not participate in any case in which
the member is an interested party.
(c)  If a member of the Appeals Board may not participate in a case because
the member is an interested party, the two members of the Appeals Board that
may hear the case shall assign an individual to participate as a member of the
board in that case if the individual:
(i)  is not an interested party in the case;
(ii)  was not previously assigned to:
(A)  preside over any proceeding related to the case; or
(B)  take any administrative action related to the case; and
(iii)  is representative of the following group that was represented by the
member that may not hear the case under Subsection (5)(b):
(A)  employers;
(B)  employees; or
(C)  the public.
(d)  The two members of the Appeals Board may appoint an individual to
participate as a member of the Appeals Board in a case if:
(i)  there is a vacancy on the board at the time the Appeals Board hears the
review of the case;
(ii)  the individual appointed meets the conditions described in Subsections
(5)(c)(i) and (ii); and
(iii)  the individual appointed is representative of the following group that
was represented by the member for which there is a vacancy:
(A)  employers;
(B)  employees; or
(C)  the public.
(6)  If an order is appealed to the court of appeals after the party appealing
the order has exhausted all administrative appeals, the court of appeals has
jurisdiction to:
(a)  review, reverse, remand, or annul any order of the commissioner or
Appeals Board; or
(b)  suspend or delay the operation or execution of the order of the
commissioner or Appeals Board being appealed.
