77-23a-3.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Aggrieved person" means a person who was a party to any intercepted
wire, electronic, or oral communication, or a person against whom the
interception was directed.
(2)  "Aural transfer" means any transfer containing the human voice at any
point between and including the point of origin and the point of reception.
(3)  "Communications common carrier" means any person engaged as a common
carrier for hire in intrastate, interstate, or foreign communication by wire
or radio, including a provider of electronic communication service.  However,
a person engaged in radio broadcasting is not, when that person is so engaged,
a communications common carrier.
(4)  "Contents" when used with respect to any wire, electronic, or oral
communication includes any information concerning the substance, purport, or
meaning of that communication.
(5)  "Electronic communication" means any transfer of signs, signals,
writings, images, sounds, data, or intelligence of any nature transmitted in
whole or in part by a wire, radio, electromagnetic, photoelectronic, or photo-
optical system, but does not include:
(a)  the radio portion of a cordless telephone communication that is
transmitted between the cordless telephone handset and the base unit;
(b)  any wire or oral communications;
(c)  any communication made through a tone-only paging device; or
(d)  any communication from an electronic or mechanical device that permits
the tracking of the movement of a person or object.
(6)  "Electronic communications service" means any service that provides for
users the ability to send or receive wire or electronic communications.
(7)  "Electronic communications system" means any wire, radio,
electromagnetic, photoelectronic, or photo-optical facilities for the
transmission of electronic communications, and any computer facilities or
related electronic equipment for the electronic storage of the communication.
(8)  "Electronic, mechanical, or other device" means any device or apparatus
that may be used to intercept a wire, electronic, or oral communication other
than:
(a)  any telephone or telegraph instrument, equipment or facility, or a
component of any of them:
(i)  furnished by the provider of wire or electronic communications service or
by the subscriber or user, and being used by the subscriber or user in the
ordinary course of its business; or
(ii)  being used by a provider of wire or electronic communications service in
the ordinary course of its business, or by an investigative or law enforcement
officer in the ordinary course of his duties; or
(b)  a hearing aid or similar device being used to correct subnormal hearing
to not better than normal.
(9)  "Electronic storage" means:
(a)  any temporary intermediate storage of a wire or electronic communication
incident to the electronic transmission of it; and
(b)  any storage of the communication by an electronic communications service
for the purposes of backup protection of the communication.
(10)  "Intercept" means the acquisition of the contents of any wire,
electronic, or oral communication through the use of any electronic,
mechanical, or other device.
(11)  "Investigative or law enforcement officer" means any officer of the
state or of a political subdivision, who by law may conduct investigations of
or make arrests for offenses enumerated in this chapter, or any federal
officer as defined in Section 53-13-106, and any attorney authorized by law to
prosecute or participate in the prosecution of these offenses.
(12)  "Judge of competent jurisdiction" means a judge of a district court of
the state.
(13)  "Oral communication" means any oral communication uttered by a person
exhibiting an expectation that the communication is not subject to
interception, under circumstances justifying that expectation, but does not
include any electronic communication.
(14)  "Pen register" means a device that records or decodes electronic or
other impulses that identify the numbers dialed or otherwise transmitted on
the telephone line to which the device is attached.  "Pen register" does not
include any device used by a provider or customer of a wire or electronic
communication service for billing or recording as an incident to billing, for
communications services provided by the provider, or any device used by a
provider or customer of a wire communications service for cost accounting or
other like purposes in the ordinary course of its business.
(15)  "Person" means any employee or agent of the state or a political
subdivision, and any individual, partnership, association, joint stock
company, trust, or corporation.
(16)  "Readily accessible to the general public" means, regarding a radio
communication, that the communication is not:
(a)  scrambled or encrypted;
(b)  transmitted using modulation techniques with essential parameters that
have been withheld from the public with the intention of preserving the
privacy of the communication;
(c)  carried on a subcarrier or signal subsidiary to a radio transmission;
(d)  transmitted over a communications system provided by a common carrier,
unless the communication is a tone-only paging system communication; or
(e)  transmitted on frequencies allocated under Part 25, Subpart D, E, or F of
Part 74, or Part 94, Rules of the Federal Communications Commission unless, in
the case of a communication transmitted on a frequency allocated under Part 74
that is not exclusively allocated to broadcast auxiliary services, the
communication is a two-way voice communication by radio.
(17)  "Trap and trace device" means a device, process, or procedure that
captures the incoming electronic or other impulses that identify the
originating number of an instrument or device from which a wire or electronic
communication is transmitted.
(18)  "User" means any person or entity who:
(a)  uses an electronic communications service; and
(b)  is authorized by the provider of the service to engage in the use.
(19) (a)  "Wire communication" means any aural transfer made in whole or in
part through the use of facilities for the transmission of communications by
the aid of wire, cable, or other like connection between the point of origin
and the point of reception, including the use of the connection in a switching
station, furnished or operated by any person engaged as a common carrier in
providing or operating these facilities for the transmission of intrastate,
interstate, or foreign communications.
(b)  "Wire communication" includes the electronic storage of the
communication, but does not include the radio portion of a cordless telephone
communication that is transmitted between the cordless telephone handset and
the base unit.
