77-23a-15.5.   Mobile tracking device authorization.
(1)  As used in this section, "mobile tracking device" means an electronic or
mechanical device emitting only an electronic locator signal which permits the
tracking of the movement of a person or an object.
(2)  An investigative or law enforcement officer may make application to a
district judge for an order authorizing or approving the installation and use
of a mobile tracking device.  The application must be in writing and signed by
the investigative or law enforcement officer and sworn to or affirmed by that
officer before the district judge.
(3)  An application under Subsection (2) must include:
(a)  a statement of the identity of the applicant and the identity of the law
enforcement agency conducting the investigation;
(b)  a certification by the applicant that the information likely to be
obtained is relevant to an ongoing criminal investigation being conducted by
the investigating agency;
(c)  a statement of the offense to which the information likely to be obtained
relates;
(d)  a statement whether it may be necessary to use and monitor the mobile
tracking device outside the jurisdiction of the court from which authorization
is being sought; and
(e)  a statement identifying the vehicle, container, or item to which, in
which, or on which the mobile tracking device is to be attached or placed and,
if known to the applicant, a statement identifying the owner or possessor of
that vehicle, container, or item.
(4)  Upon application made as provided under Subsection (2), the court, if it
finds that the certification and statement required by Subsection (3) have
been made in the application, may enter an ex parte order authorizing the
installation and use of a mobile tracking device.  The order may authorize the
use of the device within the jurisdiction of the court and outside that
jurisdiction but within the state if the device is installed within the
jurisdiction of the court.
(5)  The district judge who issued the order shall be notified by the
applicant, in writing, within ten days after the mobile tracking device has
been activated in place on or within the vehicle, container, or item.  If no
notice is received within ten days after issuance of the order, the order
shall be returned to the district judge to be recalled.
(6)  For the purpose of placing a mobile tracking device, entry upon private
property, the passenger compartment of a vehicle, or any other area subject to
a reasonable expectation of privacy is prohibited unless the applicant first
obtains consent or authority for such an entry pursuant to Utah Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
(7)  The order authorizing use of a mobile tracking device shall expire 60
days after the date the mobile tracking device was activated in place.  For
good cause shown, the district judge may grant an extension for an additional
60-day period.
(8)  This part does not prohibit any person, whether or not the person is an
investigative or law enforcement officer as defined in Subsection
77-23a-3(11), from installing and using a mobile tracking device upon or with
property belonging to and under the lawful dominion and control of that
person.
