53-13-101.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Auxiliary officer" means a sworn, certified, and supervised special
function officer, as described by Section 53-13-112.
(2)  "Certified" means recognized and accepted by the division as having
successfully met and maintained the standards and training requirements set
and approved by the director of the division with the advice and consent of
the council.
(3)  "Collateral duty" means a duty to corroborate and support a peace officer
function that is secondary and supplemental to the primary duty of the
position.
(4)  "Council" means the Peace Officer Standards and Training Council created
in Section 53-6-106.
(5)  "Director" means the director of the Peace Officer Standards and Training
Division appointed under Section 53-6-104.
(6)  "Division" means the Peace Officer Standards and Training Division
created in Section 53-6-103.
(7)  "Local law enforcement agency" means a law enforcement agency of any
political subdivision of the state.
(8)  "Primary duties" means those duties which come first in degree of effort
and importance.
(9)  "Principal duties" means those duties which are the highest and foremost
in responsibility.
(10)  "Reserve officer" means a sworn and certified peace officer, whether
paid or voluntary, who:
(a)  is serving in a reserve capacity for a law enforcement agency that is
part of or administered by the state or any of its political subdivisions; and
(b)  meets the basic and in-service training requirements of the peace officer
classification in which the officer will function.
(11)  "Spectrum" means that which encompasses the scope of authority.  "Full
spectrum" encompasses total 24-hour authority; while anything less than full
authority is contained or restricted within certain limits as set forth by
statute, ordinance, policy, or rule.
(12)  "Sworn" means having taken the oath of office set forth in Utah
Constitution Article IV, Section 10, administered by the law enforcement
agency for whom a peace officer works.
(13)  "Volunteer" means an officer who donates service without pay or other
compensation except expenses actually and reasonably incurred as approved by
the supervising agency.
(14) (a)  "While on duty" means while an officer is actually performing the
job duties and work activities assigned by the employing agency and for which
the officer is trained and certified, and may include time spent outside those
duties and activities if that additional time involves an activity that is an
integral and necessary part of the job, and is spent for the benefit, and
under the direction of, the employing agency.
(b)  "While on duty" does not include the time an officer spends commuting
between the officer's home and place of employment unless that time involves
an activity in Subsection (14)(a).
