53-13-104.   Correctional officer.

(1) (a)  "Correctional officer" means a sworn and certified officer employed by the Department of Corrections, any political subdivision of the state, or any private entity which contracts with the state or its political subdivisions to incarcerate inmates who is charged with the primary duty of providing community protection.

(b)  "Correctional officer" includes an individual assigned to carry out any of the following types of functions:

(i)  controlling, transporting, supervising, and taking into custody of persons arrested or convicted of crimes;

(ii)  supervising and preventing the escape of persons in state and local incarceration facilities;

(iii)  guarding and managing inmates and providing security and enforcement services at a correctional facility; and

(iv)  employees of the Board of Pardons and Parole serving on or before September 1, 1993, whose primary responsibility is to prevent and detect crime, enforce criminal statutes, and provide security to the Board of Pardons and Parole, and who are designated by the Board of Pardons and Parole, approved by the commissioner of public safety, and certified by the Peace Officer Standards and Training Division.

(2) (a)  Correctional officers have peace officer authority only while on duty.  The authority of correctional officers employed by the Department of Corrections is regulated by Title 64, Chapter 13, Department of Corrections -- State Prison.

(b)  Correctional officers may carry firearms only if authorized by and under conditions specified by the director of the Department of Corrections or the chief law enforcement officer of the employing agency.

(3) (a)  An individual may not exercise the authority of an adult correctional officer until the individual has satisfactorily completed a basic training program for correctional officers and the director of the Department of Corrections has certified the completion of training to the director of the division.

(b)  An individual may not exercise the authority of a county correctional officer until:

(i)  the individual has satisfactorily completed a basic training program for correctional officers and any other specialized training required by the local law enforcement agency; and

(ii)  the chief administrator of the local law enforcement agency has certified the completion of training to the director of the division.

(4) (a)  The Department of Corrections of the state shall establish and maintain a correctional officer basic course and in-service training programs as approved by the director of the division with the advice and consent of the council.

(b)  The in-service training shall:

(i)  consist of no fewer than 40 hours per year; and

(ii)  be conducted by the agency's own staff or other agencies.

(5)  The local law enforcement agencies may establish correctional officer basic, advanced, or in-service training programs as approved by the director of the division with the advice and consent of the council.

