53-13-105.   Special function officer.

(1) (a)  "Special function officer" means a sworn and certified peace officer performing specialized investigations, service of legal process, security functions, or specialized ordinance, rule, or regulatory functions.

(b)  "Special function officer" includes:

(i)  state military police;

(ii)  constables;

(iii)  port-of-entry agents as defined in Section 72-1-102;

(iv)  authorized employees or agents of the Department of Transportation assigned to administer and enforce the provisions of Title 72, Chapter 9, Motor Carrier Safety Act;

(v)  school district security officers;

(vi)  Utah State Hospital security officers designated pursuant to Section 62A-15-603;

(vii)  Utah State Developmental Center security officers designated pursuant to Subsection 62A-5-206(9);

(viii)  fire arson investigators for any political subdivision of the state;

(ix)  ordinance enforcement officers employed by municipalities or counties may be special function officers;

(x)  employees of the Department of Natural Resources who have been designated to conduct supplemental enforcement functions as a collateral duty;

(xi)  railroad special agents deputized by a county sheriff under Section 17-30-2, or appointed pursuant to Section 56-1-21.5;

(xii)  auxiliary officers, as described by Section 53-13-112;

(xiii)  special agents, process servers, and investigators employed by city attorneys;

(xiv)  criminal tax investigators designated under Section 59-1-206; and

(xv)  all other persons designated by statute as having special function officer authority or limited peace officer authority.

(2) (a) A special function officer may exercise that spectrum of peace officer authority that has been designated by statute to the employing agency, and only while on duty, and not for the purpose of general law enforcement.

(b)  If the special function officer is charged with security functions respecting facilities or property, the powers may be exercised only in connection with acts occurring on the property where the officer is employed or when required for the protection of the employer's interest, property, or employees.

(c) A special function officer may carry firearms only while on duty, and only if authorized and under conditions specified by the officer's employer or chief administrator.

(3) (a)  A special function officer may not exercise the authority of a peace officer until:

(i)  the officer has satisfactorily completed an approved basic training program for special function officers as provided under Subsection (4); and

(ii)  the chief law enforcement officer or administrator has certified this fact to the director of the division.

(b)  City and county constables and their deputies shall certify their completion of training to the legislative governing body of the city or county they serve.

(4) (a)  The agency that the special function officer serves may establish and maintain a basic special function course and in-service training programs as approved by the director of the division with the advice and consent of the council.

(b)  The in-service training shall consist of no fewer than 40 hours per year and may be conducted by the agency's own staff or by other agencies.



Amended by Chapter 8, 2002 Special Session 5

