31A-36-104.   License requirements, revocation, and denial.
(1) (a)  A person may not, without first obtaining a license from the
commissioner, operate in or from this state as:
(i)  a life settlement provider; or
(ii)  a life settlement producer.
(b) A life settlement is included within the scope of the life insurance
producer line of authority.
(2) (a)  To obtain a license as a life settlement provider, an applicant
shall:
(i)  comply with Section 31A-23a-117;
(ii)  file an application;
(iii)  pay the license fee; and
(iv)  provide evidence of financial responsibility.
(b)  If an applicant for a life settlement provider license complies with
Subsection (2)(a) and Section 31A-23a-117, the commissioner shall investigate
the applicant and issue a life settlement provider license if the commissioner
finds that the applicant is competent and trustworthy to engage in the
business of providing life settlements by experience, training, or education.
(3)  In addition to the requirements in Sections 31A-23a-111, 31A-23a-112 and
31A-23a-113, the commissioner may refuse to issue, suspend, revoke, or refuse
to renew the license of a life settlement provider or life settlement producer
if the commissioner finds that:
(a)  a life settlement provider demonstrates a pattern of unreasonable
payments to owners;
(b)  the applicant, the licensee, an officer, partner, or member, or key
management personnel:
(i) is, whether or not a judgment of conviction is entered by the court, found
guilty of, or pleads guilty or nolo contendere to:
(A)  a felony; or
(B)  a misdemeanor involving fraud or moral turpitude;
(ii) violates this chapter; or
(iii) is subject to a final administrative action by another state or federal
jurisdiction.
(c)  a life settlement provider enters into a life settlement not approved
under this chapter;
(d)  a life settlement provider fails to honor obligations of a life
settlement;
(e)  a life settlement provider assigns, transfers, or pledges a settled
policy to a person other than:
(i)  a life settlement provider licensed under this chapter;
(ii)  a life settlement purchaser;
(iii)  an accredited investor as defined in Regulation D, Rule 501, 17 C.F.R.
Sec. 230.501;
(iv)  a qualified institutional buyer as defined in Rule 144A, 17 C.F.R. Sec.
230.144A;
(v)  a financing entity;
(vi)  a special purpose entity; or
(vii)  a related provider trust;
(f)  a life settlement provider fails to maintain a standard set forth in
Subsection (2)(b);
(g)  an applicant or licensee has a material misrepresentation in an initial
or renewal application for a license; or
(h)  the licensee engages in bad faith conduct with one or more owners.
(4)  If the commissioner denies a license application or suspends, revokes, or
refuses to renew the license of a life settlement provider or life settlement
producer, the commissioner shall conduct an adjudicative proceeding under
Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
