78A-5-102.   Jurisdiction -- Appeals.

(1)  The district court has original jurisdiction in all matters civil and criminal, not excepted in the Utah Constitution and not prohibited by law.

(2)  The district court judges may issue all extraordinary writs and other writs necessary to carry into effect their orders, judgments, and decrees.

(3)  The district court has jurisdiction over matters of lawyer discipline consistent with the rules of the Supreme Court.

(4)  The district court has jurisdiction over all matters properly filed in the circuit court prior to July 1, 1996.

(5)  The district court has appellate jurisdiction over judgments and orders of the justice court as outlined in Section 78A-7-118 and small claims appeals filed pursuant to Section 78A-8-106.

(6)  Appeals from the final orders, judgments, and decrees of the district court are under Sections 78A-3-102 and 78A-4-103.

(7)  The district court has jurisdiction to review:

(a)  agency adjudicative proceedings as set forth in Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, and shall comply with the requirements of that chapter, in its review of agency adjudicative proceedings; and

(b)  municipal administrative proceedings in accordance with Section 10-3-703.7.

(8)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1), the district court has subject matter jurisdiction in class B misdemeanors, class C misdemeanors, infractions, and violations of ordinances only if:

(a)  there is no justice court with territorial jurisdiction;

(b)  the offense occurred within the boundaries of the municipality in which the district courthouse is located and that municipality has not formed, or has not formed and then dissolved, a justice court; or

(c)  they are included in an indictment or information covering a single criminal episode alleging the commission of a felony or a class A misdemeanor.

(9)  If the district court has subject matter jurisdiction pursuant to Subsection (5) or (8), it also has jurisdiction over offenses listed in Section 78A-7-106 even if those offenses are committed by a person 16 years of age or older.

(10)  The district court has jurisdiction of actions under Title 78B, Chapter 7, Part 2, Child Protective Orders, if the juvenile court transfers the case to the district court.



Amended by Chapter 34, 2010 General Session

