78A-5-111.   Transfer of court operating responsibilities -- Facilities -- Staff -- Budget.

(1)  A county's determination to transfer responsibility for operation of the district court to the state is irrevocable.

(2) (a)  Court space suitable for the conduct of judicial business as specified by the Judicial Council shall be provided by the state from appropriations made by the Legislature for these purposes.

(b)  The state may, in order to carry out its obligation to provide these facilities, lease space from a county, or reimburse a county for the number of square feet used by the district.  Any lease and reimbursement shall be determined in accordance with the standards of the State Building Board applicable to state agencies generally.  A county or municipality terminating a lease with the court shall provide written notice to the Judicial Council at least one year prior to the effective date of the termination.

(c)  District courts shall be located in municipalities that are sites for the district court or circuit court as of January 1, 1994.  Removal of the district court from the municipality shall require prior legislative approval by joint resolution.

(3)  The state shall provide legal reference materials for all district judges' chambers and courtrooms, as required by Judicial Council rule.  Maintenance of county law libraries shall be in consultation with the court executive of the district court.

(4) (a)  At the request of the Judicial Council, the county or municipality shall provide staff for the district court in county seats or municipalities under contract with the administrative office of the courts.

(b)  Payment for necessary expenses shall be by a contract entered into annually between the state and the county or municipality, which shall specifically state the agreed costs of personnel, supplies, and services, as well as the method and terms of payment.

(c)  Workload measures prepared by the state court administrator and projected costs for the next fiscal year shall be considered in the negotiation of contracts.

(d)  Each May 1 preceding the general session of the Legislature, the county or municipality shall submit a budget request to the Judicial Council, the governor, and the legislative fiscal analyst for services to be rendered as part of the contract under Subsection (4)(b) for the fiscal year immediately following the legislative session.  The Judicial Council shall consider this information in developing its budget request.  The legislative fiscal analyst shall provide the Legislature with the county's or municipality's original estimate of expenses.  By June 15 preceding the state's fiscal year, the county and the state court administrator shall negotiate a contract to cover expenses in accordance with the appropriation approved by the Legislature.  The contracts may not include payments for expenses of service of process, indigent defense costs, or other costs or expenses provided by law as an obligation of the county or municipality.

