16-6a-105.   Filing requirements.
(1)  To be entitled to filing by the division, a document shall satisfy the
requirements of:
(a)  this section; and
(b)  any other section of this chapter that adds to or varies the requirements
of this section.
(2)  This chapter shall require or permit filing the document with the
division.
(3) (a)  A document shall contain the information required by this chapter.
(b)  In addition to the document information required by this chapter, a
document may contain other information.
(4)  A document shall be:
(a)  typewritten; or
(b)  machine printed.
(5) (a)  A document shall be in the English language.
(b)  A corporate name need not be in English if written in:
(i)  English letters; or
(ii)  Arabic or Roman numerals.
(c)  Notwithstanding Subsection (5)(a), a certificate of existence required of
a foreign nonprofit corporation need not be in English if accompanied by a
reasonably authenticated English translation.
(6) (a)  A document shall be:
(i)  executed by a person in Subsection (6)(b); or
(ii)  a true copy made by photographic, xerographic, electronic, or other
process that provides similar copy accuracy of a document that has been
executed by a person listed in Subsection (6)(b).
(b)  A document shall be executed by:
(i)  the chair of the board of directors of a domestic or foreign nonprofit
corporation;
(ii)  all of the directors of a domestic or foreign nonprofit corporation;
(iii)  an officer of the domestic or foreign nonprofit corporation;
(iv)  if directors have not been selected or the domestic or foreign nonprofit
corporation has not been formed, an incorporator;
(v)  if the domestic or foreign nonprofit corporation is in the hands of a
receiver, trustee, or other court-appointed fiduciary, that receiver, trustee,
or court-appointed fiduciary;
(vi)  if the document is that of a registered agent:
(A)  the registered agent, if the person is an individual; or
(B)  a person authorized by the registered agent to execute the document, if
the registered agent is an entity; or
(vii)  an attorney in fact if a nonprofit corporation retains the power of
attorney with the nonprofit corporation's records.
(7)  A document shall state beneath or opposite the signature of the person
executing the document:
(a)  the signer's name; and
(b)  the capacity in which the document is signed.
(8)  A document may contain:
(a)  the corporate seal;
(b)  an attestation by the secretary or an assistant secretary; or
(c)  an acknowledgment, verification, or proof.
(9)  The signature of each person signing a document, whether or not the
document contains an acknowledgment, verification, or proof permitted by
Subsection (8), constitutes the affirmation or acknowledgment of the person,
under penalties of perjury, that:
(a)  the document is:
(i)  the person's act and deed; or
(ii)  the act and deed of the entity on behalf of which the document is
executed; and
(b)  the facts stated in the document are true.
(10)  If the division has prescribed a mandatory form or cover sheet for the
document under Section 16-6a-106, a document shall be:
(a)  in or on the prescribed form; or
(b)  have the required cover sheet.
(11)  A document shall be:
(a)  delivered to the division for filing; and
(b)  accompanied by:
(i)  one exact or conformed copy, except as provided in Section 16-6a-1510;
(ii)  the correct filing fee; and
(iii)  any franchise tax, license fee, or penalty required by this chapter or
other law.
(12)  Except with respect to a filing pursuant to Section 16-6a-1510, a
document shall state, or be accompanied by a writing stating, the address to
which the division may send a copy upon completion of the filing.
