16-6a-706.   Record date -- Determining members entitled to notice and vote.
(1) (a)  The bylaws may fix or provide the manner of fixing a date as the
record date for determining the members entitled to notice of a members'
meeting.
(b)  If the bylaws do not fix or provide for fixing a record date described in
Subsection (1)(a), the board of directors may fix a future date as the record
date.
(c)  If a record date is not fixed in accordance with Subsection (1)(a) or
(b), members entitled to notice of the meeting are the members of the
nonprofit corporation:
(i)  at the close of business on the business day preceding the day on which
notice is given; or
(ii)  if notice is waived, at the close of business on the business day
preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
(2) (a)  The bylaws may fix or provide the manner of fixing a date as the
record date for determining the members entitled to vote at a members'
meeting.
(b)  If the bylaws do not fix or provide for fixing a record date described in
Subsection (2)(a), the board may fix a future date as the record date.
(c)  If a record date is not fixed in accordance with Subsection (2)(a) or
(b), members entitled to vote at the meeting are the members of the nonprofit
corporation:
(i)  on the date of the meeting; and
(ii)  who are otherwise eligible to vote.
(3) (a)  The bylaws may fix or provide the manner for determining a date as
the record date for the purpose of determining the members entitled to
exercise any rights in respect of any other lawful action.
(b)  If the bylaws do not fix or provide for fixing a record date described in
Subsection (3)(a), the board of directors may fix a future date as the record
date.
(c)  If a record date is not fixed in accordance with Subsection (3)(a) or
(b), members entitled to exercise the right are members of the nonprofit
corporation at the later of:
(i)  the close of business on the day on which the board adopts the resolution
relating to the exercise of the right; or
(ii)  the close of business on the 60th day before the date of the exercise of
the right.
(4)  A record date fixed under this section may not be more than 70 days
before the meeting or action requiring a determination of members occurs.
(5) (a)  A determination of members entitled to notice of or to vote at a
meeting of members is effective for any adjournment of the meeting unless the
board of directors fixes a new date for determining the right to notice or the
right to vote.
(b)  The board of directors shall fix a new date for determining the right to
notice or the right to vote if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than
120 days after the record date for determining members entitled to notice of
the original meeting.
(6)  If a court orders a meeting adjourned to a date more than 120 days after
the date fixed for the original meeting, the court may:
(a)  provide that the original record date for notice or voting continues in
effect; or
(b)  fix a new record date for notice or voting.
