16-6a-712.   Proxies.
(1)  Unless otherwise provided by the bylaws, a member entitled to vote may
vote or otherwise act in person or by proxy.
(2)  Without limiting the manner in which a member may appoint a proxy to vote
or otherwise act for the member, Subsections (2)(a) and (b) constitute valid
means of appointing a proxy.
(a)  A member may appoint a proxy by signing an appointment form, either
personally or by the member's attorney-in-fact.
(b) (i)  Subject to Subsection (2)(b)(ii) a member may appoint a proxy by
transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, teletype,
facsimile, or other electronic transmission providing a written statement of
the appointment to:
(A)  the proxy;
(B)  a proxy solicitor;
(C)  a proxy support service organization;
(D)  another person duly authorized by the proxy to receive appointments as
agent for the proxy; or
(E)  the nonprofit corporation.
(ii)  An appointment transmitted under Subsection (2)(b)(i) shall set forth or
be transmitted with written evidence from which it can be determined that the
member transmitted or authorized the transmission of the appointment.
(3) (a)  An appointment of a proxy is effective against the nonprofit
corporation when received by the nonprofit corporation, including receipt by
the nonprofit corporation of an appointment transmitted pursuant to Subsection
(2)(b).
(b)  An appointment is valid for 11 months unless a different period is
expressly provided in the appointment form.
(4)  Any complete copy, including an electronically transmitted facsimile, of
an appointment of a proxy may be substituted for or used in lieu of the
original appointment for any purpose for which the original appointment could
be used.
(5)  An appointment of a proxy is revocable by the member.
(6)  An appointment of a proxy is revoked by the person appointing the proxy:
(a)  attending any meeting and voting in person; or
(b)  signing and delivering to the secretary or other officer or agent
authorized to tabulate proxy votes:
(i)  a writing stating that the appointment of the proxy is revoked; or
(ii)  a subsequent appointment form.
(7)  The death or incapacity of the member appointing a proxy does not affect
the right of the nonprofit corporation to accept the proxy's authority unless
notice of the death or incapacity is received by the secretary or other
officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes before the proxy exercises the
proxy's authority under the appointment.
(8)  Subject to Section 16-6a-713 and to any express limitation on the proxy's
authority appearing on the appointment form, a nonprofit corporation is
entitled to accept the proxy's vote or other action as that of the member
making the appointment.
