16-6a-1006.   Restated articles of incorporation.
(1) (a)  The board of directors may restate the articles of incorporation at
any time with or without member action.
(b) The incorporators of a nonprofit corporation may restate the articles of
incorporation at any time if the nonprofit corporation:
(i)  has no members; and
(ii)  no directors have been chosen.
(2) (a)  The restatement may include one or more amendments to the articles of
incorporation.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1), if the restatement includes an amendment
requiring member approval, it shall be adopted as provided in Section
16-6a-1003.
(3) (a)  If the board of directors submits a restatement for member action,
the nonprofit corporation shall give notice, in accordance with Section
16-6a-704, to each member entitled to vote on the restatement of the members'
meeting at which the restatement will be voted upon.
(b)  The notice required by Subsection (3)(a) shall:
(i)  state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to
consider the restatement; and
(ii)  contain or be accompanied by a copy of the restatement that identifies
any amendment or other change it would make in the articles of incorporation.
(4)  A nonprofit corporation restating its articles of incorporation shall
deliver to the division for filing articles of restatement setting forth:
(a)  the name of the nonprofit corporation;
(b)  the text of the restated articles of incorporation;
(c)  if the restatement contains an amendment to the articles of incorporation
that was adopted by the members, the information required by Subsection
16-6a-1005(5); and
(d)  if the restatement was adopted by the board of directors or incorporators
without member action, a statement to that effect and that member action was
not required.
(5)  Upon filing by the division or at any later effective date determined
pursuant to Section 16-6a-108, restated articles of incorporation supersede
the original articles of incorporation and all prior amendments to the
original articles of incorporation.
