16-6a-1607.   Annual report for division.
(1)  Each domestic nonprofit corporation, and each foreign nonprofit
corporation authorized to conduct affairs in this state, shall deliver to the
division for filing an annual report on a form provided by the division that
sets forth:
(a) (i)  the corporate name of the domestic or foreign nonprofit corporation;
and
(ii)  any assumed corporate name of the foreign nonprofit corporation;
(b)  the jurisdiction under whose law it is incorporated;
(c)  the information required by Subsection 16-17-203(1);
(d)  the street address of its principal office, wherever located; and
(e)  the names and addresses of its directors and principal officers.
(2)  The division shall deliver a copy of the prescribed form of annual report
to each domestic nonprofit corporation and each foreign nonprofit corporation
authorized to conduct affairs in this state.
(3)  Information in the annual report shall be current as of the date the
annual report is executed on behalf of the nonprofit corporation.
(4) (a)  The annual report of a domestic or foreign nonprofit corporation
shall be delivered annually to the division no later than 60 days past the
date the report was mailed by the division.
(b)  Proof to the satisfaction of the division that the nonprofit corporation
has mailed an annual report form is considered in compliance with this
Subsection (4).
(5) (a)  If an annual report contains the information required by this
section, the division shall file it.
(b)  If an annual report does not contain the information required by this
section, the division shall promptly notify the reporting domestic or foreign
nonprofit corporation in writing and return the annual report to it for
correction.
(c)  If an annual report that is rejected under Subsection (5)(b) was
otherwise timely filed and is corrected to contain the information required by
this section and delivered to the division within 30 days after the effective
date of the notice of rejection, the annual report is considered to be timely
filed.
(6)  The fact that an individual's name is signed on an annual report form is
prima facie evidence for division purposes that the individual is authorized
to certify the report on behalf of the nonprofit corporation.
(7)  The annual report form provided by the division may be designed to
provide a simplified certification by the nonprofit corporation if no changes
have been made in the required information from the last preceding report
filed.
(8)  A domestic or foreign nonprofit corporation may, but may not be required
to, deliver to the division for filing an amendment to its annual report
reflecting any change in the information contained in its annual report as
last amended.
