67-16-3.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Agency" means any department, division, agency, commission, board, council, committee, authority, or any other institution of the state or any of its political subdivisions.

(2)  "Agency head" means the chief executive or administrative officer of any agency.

(3)  "Assist" means to act, or offer or agree to act, in such a way as to help, represent, aid, advise, furnish information to, or otherwise provide assistance to a person or business entity, believing that such action is of help, aid, advice, or assistance to such person or business entity and with the intent to assist such person or business entity.

(4)  "Business entity" means a sole proprietorship, partnership, association, joint venture, corporation, firm, trust, foundation, or other organization or entity used in carrying on a business.

(5)  "Compensation" means anything of economic value, however designated, which is paid, loaned, granted, given, donated, or transferred to any person or business entity by anyone other than the governmental employer for or in consideration of personal services, materials, property, or any other thing whatsoever.

(6)  "Controlled, private, or protected information" means information classified as controlled, private, or protected in Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act, or other applicable provision of law.

(7)  "Governmental action" means any action on the part of the state, a political subdivision, or an agency, including:

(a)  any decision, determination, finding, ruling, or order; and

(b)  any grant, payment, award, license, contract, subcontract, transaction, decision, sanction, or approval, or the denial thereof, or the failure to act in respect to.

(8)  "Improper disclosure" means disclosure of controlled, private, or protected information to any person who does not have the right to receive the information.

(9)  "Legislative employee" means any officer or employee of the Legislature, or any committee of the Legislature, who is appointed or employed to serve, either with or without compensation, for an aggregate of less than 800 hours during any period of 365 days.  "Legislative employee" does not include legislators.

(10)  "Legislator" means a member or member-elect of either house of the Legislature of the state of Utah.

(11)  "Political subdivision" means a district, school district, or any other political subdivision of the state that is not an agency, but does not include a municipality or a county.

(12)  "Public employee" means a person who is not a public officer who is employed on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis by the state or any of its political subdivisions.  "Public employee" does not include legislators or legislative employees.

(13)  "Public officer" means all elected or appointed officers of the state or any of its political subdivisions who occupy policymaking posts.  "Public officer" does not include legislators or legislative employees.

(14)  "State" means the state of Utah.

(15)  "Substantial interest" means the ownership, either legally or equitably, by an individual, the individual's spouse, or the individual's minor children, of at least 10% of the outstanding capital stock of a corporation or a 10% interest in any other business entity.

