53-11-115.   License fees -- Deposit in General Fund.

(1)  Fees for licensure, registration, and renewal are:

(a)  for an original bail enforcement agent license application and license, $250, which shall include the costs of fingerprint processing and background investigation;

(b)  for the renewal of a bail enforcement agent or bail bond recovery agency license, $150;

(c)  for an original bail recovery agent license application and license, $150, which shall include the costs of fingerprint processing and background investigation;

(d)  for the renewal of each bail recovery agent license, $100;

(e)  for an original bail recovery apprentice license application and license, $150, which shall include the costs of fingerprint processing and background investigation;

(f)  for the renewal of each bail recovery apprentice license, $100;

(g)  for filing a renewal application under Subsection (1)(b) more than 30 days after the expiration date of the license, a delinquency fee of $50;

(h)  for filing a renewal application under Subsection (1)(d) more than 30 days after the expiration date of the registration, a delinquency fee of $30;

(i)  for filing a renewal application under Subsection (1)(f) more than 30 days after the expiration date of the apprentice license, a delinquency fee of $30;

(j)  for the reinstatement of a bail enforcement agent or bail bond recovery agency license, $50;

(k)  for a duplicate identification card, $10; and

(l)  for reinstatement of an identification card, $10.

(2) (a)  The board may renew a license granted under this chapter upon receipt of an application on forms as prescribed by the board and upon receipt of the fees prescribed in Subsection (1).

(b)  The renewal of a bail enforcement agent, bail recovery agent, or bail recovery apprentice license requires the filing of a liability insurance policy as required in Subsections 53-9-110(2) and (3).

(c)  A license may not be renewed more than 90 days after its expiration.

(d)  A licensee may not engage in any activity subject to this chapter during any period between the date of expiration of the license and the renewal of the license.

(3) (a)  The board may reinstate a suspended license upon completion of the term of suspension.

(b)  Renewal of the license does not entitle the licensee, while the license remains suspended and until it is reinstated, to engage in any activity regulated by this chapter, or in any other activity or conduct in violation of the order or judgment by which the license was suspended.

(4)  The board may not reinstate a revoked license or accept an application for a license from a person whose license has been revoked for at least one year after the date of revocation.

(5)  All fees collected by the department under this section shall be deposited in the General Fund.

