53-11-116.   Issuance of license and card to applicant -- License period -- Expiration of application -- Transfer of license prohibited.

(1) (a)  The board shall issue a license to an applicant who complies with the provisions of this chapter.

(b)  Each license shall:

(i)  contain the name and address of the licensee, the classification of license, and the number of the license; and

(ii)  be issued for a period of two years.

(2) (a)  When the board issues the license, it shall also issue an identification card the design of which shall be approved by the commissioner in accordance with Section 53-11-116.5.

(b)  The identification card shall be issued without charge to the licensee if an individual, or if the licensee is an agency, to each of its licensed employees and contract employees, and is evidence the licensee and his employees and contract employees are licensed under this chapter.

(3) (a)  If an identification card issued to a person states on it any bail bond agencies for which the cardholder works, that person shall return the card to the employer upon termination of his work relationship with the bail bond agency licensee.

(b)  Within five days the licensee shall mail or deliver the card to the commissioner for cancellation.

(4) (a)  When the commissioner notifies an applicant that licensure as a bail bond recovery agency is ready for issuance, the applicant shall complete the application process within 90 days.

(b)  Failure to complete the process results in cancellation of the application and forfeiture of all fees paid to that point.

(c)  Subsequent application by the same applicant requires the payment of all application and license fees prescribed in Section 53-11-115.

(5)  A bail bond agency licensee shall notify the commissioner of any change in the name or address of his business and of any change of employees or contract employees within 30 days after the change.

(6) (a)  All new employees and contract employees of an agency who are licensed under this chapter shall submit applications on forms prescribed by the board.

(b)  Upon board approval, identification cards shall be issued without charge.



Amended by Chapter 266, 1999 General Session

