63E-1-102.   Definitions.

As used in this title:

(1)  "Authorizing statute" means the statute creating an entity as an independent entity.

(2)  "Committee" means the Retirement and Independent Entities Committee created in Section 63E-1-201.

(3)  "Independent corporation" means a corporation incorporated in accordance with Chapter 2, Independent Corporations Act.

(4) (a)  "Independent entity" means an entity having a public purpose relating to the state or its citizens that is individually created by the state or is given by the state the right to exist and conduct its affairs as an:

(i)  independent state agency; or

(ii)  independent corporation.

(b)  "Independent entity" includes the:

(i)  Dairy Commission created in Title 4, Chapter 22, Dairy Promotion Act;

(ii)  Heber Valley Historic Railroad Authority created in Title 63H, Chapter 4, Heber Valley Historic Railroad Authority;

(iii)  Utah State Railroad Museum Authority created in Title 63H, Chapter 5, Utah State Railroad Museum Authority;

(iv)  Utah Science Center Authority created in Title 63H, Chapter 3, Utah Science Center Authority;

(v)  Utah Housing Corporation created in Title 35A, Chapter 8, Part 7, Utah Housing Corporation Act;

(vi)  Utah State Fair Corporation created in Title 63H, Chapter 6, Utah State Fair Corporation Act;

(vii)  Workers' Compensation Fund created in Title 31A, Chapter 33, Workers' Compensation Fund;

(viii)  Utah State Retirement Office created in Title 49, Chapter 11, Utah State Retirement Systems Administration;

(ix)  School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration created in Title 53C, Chapter 1, Part 2, School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration;

(x)  Utah Communications Agency Network created in Title 63C, Chapter 7, Utah Communications Agency Network Act;

(xi)  Utah Generated Renewable Energy Electricity Network Authority created in Title 63H, Chapter 2, Utah Generated Renewable Energy Electricity Network Authority Act; and

(xii)  Utah Capital Investment Corporation created in Title 63M, Chapter 1, Part 12, Utah Venture Capital Enhancement Act.

(c)  Notwithstanding this Subsection (4), "independent entity" does not include:

(i)  the Public Service Commission of Utah created in Section 54-1-1;

(ii)  an institution within the state system of higher education;

(iii)  a city, county, or town;

(iv)  a local school district;

(v)  a local district under Title 17B, Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Local Districts; or

(vi)  a special service district under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act.

(5)  "Independent state agency" means an entity that is created by the state, but is independent of the governor's direct supervisory control.

(6)  "Money held in trust" means money maintained for the benefit of:

(a)  one or more private individuals, including public employees;

(b)  one or more public or private entities; or

(c)  the owners of a quasi-public corporation.

(7)  "Public corporation" means an artificial person, public in ownership, individually created by the state as a body politic and corporate for the administration of a public purpose relating to the state or its citizens.

(8)  "Quasi-public corporation" means an artificial person, private in ownership, individually created as a corporation by the state which has accepted from the state the grant of a franchise or contract involving the performance of a public purpose relating to the state or its citizens.



Amended by Chapter 212, 2012 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 369, 2012 General Session

