63M-4-502.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Alternative energy" is as defined in Section 59-12-102.

(2) (a)  "Alternative energy entity" means a person that:

(i)  conducts business within the state; and

(ii)  enters into an agreement with the office that qualifies the person to receive a tax credit.

(b)  "Alternative energy entity" includes a pass-through entity taxpayer, as defined in Section 59-10-1402, of a person described in Subsection (2)(a).

(3)  "Alternative energy project" means a project produced by an alternative energy entity if that project involves:

(a)  a new or expanding operation in the state; and

(b) (i)  utility-scale alternative energy generation; or

(ii)  the extraction of alternative fuels.

(4)  "New incremental job within the state" means, with respect to an alternative energy entity, an employment position that:

(a)  did not exist within the state before:

(i)  the alternative energy entity entered into an agreement with the office in accordance with Section 63M-4-503; and

(ii)  the alternative energy project began;

(b)  is not shifted from one location in the state to another location in the state; and

(c)  is established to the satisfaction of the office, including by amounts paid or withheld by the alternative energy entity under Title 59, Chapter 10, Individual Income Tax Act.

(5)  "New state revenues" means an increased amount of tax revenues generated as a result of an alternative energy project by an alternative energy entity or a new incremental job within the state under the following:

(a)  Title 59, Chapter 7, Corporate Franchise and Income Taxes;

(b)  Title 59, Chapter 10, Individual Income Tax Act; and

(c)  Title 59, Chapter 12, Sales and Use Tax Act.

(6)  "Office" is as defined in Section 63M-4-401.

(7)  "Tax credit" means a tax credit under Section 59-7-614.7 or 59-10-1029.

(8)  "Tax credit applicant" means an alternative energy entity that applies to the office to receive a tax credit certificate under this part.

(9)  "Tax credit certificate" means a certificate issued by the office that:

(a)  lists the name of the tax credit certificate recipient;

(b)  lists the tax credit certificate recipient's taxpayer identification number;

(c)  lists the amount of the tax credit certificate recipient's tax credits authorized under this part for a taxable year; and

(d)  includes other information as determined by the office.

(10)  "Tax credit certificate recipient" means an alternative energy entity that receives a tax credit certificate for a tax credit in accordance with this part.



Enacted by Chapter 410, 2012 General Session

