78B-9-303.   Consequences of postconviction DNA testing when result is
favorable to person -- Procedures.
(1) (a)  If the result of postconviction DNA testing is favorable to the
person, the person may file a motion to vacate the conviction.  The court
shall give the state 30 days to respond in writing, to present evidence, and
to be heard in oral argument prior to issuing an order to vacate the
conviction.  The state may by motion request an extension of the 30 days,
which the court may grant upon good cause shown.
(b)  The state may stipulate to the conviction being vacated, or may request a
hearing and attempt to demonstrate through evidence and argument that, despite
the DNA test results, the state possesses sufficient evidence of the person's
guilt so that the person is unable to demonstrate by clear and convincing
evidence that the person is factually innocent of one or more offenses of
which the person was convicted, and all the lesser included offenses related
to those offenses.
(2) (a) (i)  If the result of postconviction DNA testing is favorable to the
person and the state opposes vacating the conviction, the court shall consider
all the evidence presented at the original trial and at the hearing under
Subsection (1)(b), including the new DNA test result.
(ii)  The court may consider:
(A)  evidence that was suppressed or would be suppressed at a criminal trial;
and
(B)  hearsay evidence, and may consider that the evidence is hearsay in
evaluating its weight and credibility.
(b)  If the court, after considering all the evidence, determines that the DNA
test result demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that the person is
factually innocent of one or more offenses of which the person was convicted,
the court shall order that those convictions be vacated with prejudice and
those convictions be expunged from the person's record.
(c)  If the court, after considering all the evidence presented at the
original trial and at the hearing under Subsection (1)(b), including the new
DNA test result, finds by clear and convincing evidence that the person did
not commit one or more offenses of which the person was convicted, but the
court does not find by clear and convincing evidence that the person did not
commit any lesser included offenses relating to those offenses, the court
shall modify the original conviction and sentence of the person as appropriate
for the lesser included offense, whether or not the lesser included offense
was originally submitted to the trier of fact.
(d)  If the court, after considering all the evidence presented at the
original trial and at the hearing under Subsection (1)(b), including the new
DNA test result, does not find by clear and convincing evidence that the
person is factually innocent of the offense or offenses the person is
challenging and does not find that Subsection (2)(c) applies, the court shall
deny the person's petition regarding the offense or offenses.
(e)  Any party may appeal from the trial court's final ruling on the petition
under this part.
