32A-4a-302 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Application and renewal requirements.
(1)  A person seeking a resort spa sublicense under this part may not file a
written application with the department that is separate from the application
of the resort license, unless the resort spa sublicense is being sought after
the granting of a resort license.
(2)  If a resort licensee seeks to add a resort spa sublicense after its
resort license is granted, the resort licensee shall in accordance with
Subsection 32A-4a-204(3) file a written application with the department, in a
form prescribed by the department.  The application shall be accompanied by:
(a)  a nonrefundable $250 application fee;
(b)  an initial license fee of $2,000, which is refundable if the resort spa
sublicense is not granted;
(c)  written consent of the local authority;
(d)  a copy of:
(i)  the resort licensee's current business license; and
(ii)  a business license for the resort spa, if the business license is
separate from the resort licensee's business license;
(e)  evidence that the resort spa sublicense premises are entirely within the
boundary of a resort building;
(f)  a floor or similar plan of the resort spa, including consumption areas
and the area where the resort licensee proposes to keep, store, and sell
liquor;
(g)  evidence that the resort licensee carries public liability insurance in
an amount and form satisfactory to the department;
(h)  evidence that the resort licensee's dramshop insurance coverage required
under Section 32A-4a-202 covers the resort spa sublicense;
(i)  a signed consent form stating that the resort licensee will permit any
authorized representative of the commission, department, or any law
enforcement officer unrestricted right to enter the resort spa sublicense
premises;
(j)  if an applicant is a partnership, corporation, or limited liability
company, proper verification evidencing that the person or persons signing the
application are authorized to so act on behalf of the partnership,
corporation, or limited liability company; and
(k)  any other information the commission or department may require.
(3) (a)  A resort spa sublicense expires on October 31 of each year.
(b)  A resort licensee desiring to renew the resort licensee's resort spa
sublicense shall renew the resort spa sublicense as part of renewing the
resort license.
(c)  Failure to meet the renewal requirements for a resort license results in
an automatic forfeiture of the resort spa sublicense effective on the date the
resort license expires.
(d)  A renewal application shall be in a form as prescribed by the department.
(4)  To ensure compliance with Subsection 32A-4a-305(30), the commission may
suspend or revoke a resort spa sublicense if the resort licensee does not
immediately notify the department of a change described in Subsection 32A-
4a-202(4).
