32A-4a-401 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Operational restrictions for resort license.

(1) (a)  A person granted a resort license and the employees and management personnel of the resort licensee including those operating under a sublicense shall comply with this title, the rules of the commission, and the conditions and requirements in this section.

(b)  Subject to Section 32A-4a-502, failure to comply with this section may result in a suspension or revocation of the resort license or a sublicense, or other disciplinary action taken against individual employees or management personnel.

(2) (a)  A resort licensee may not offer for sale, sell, serve, or otherwise furnish an alcoholic beverage except:

(i)  on a sublicense premises;

(ii)  pursuant to a permit issued under this title; or

(iii)  under a package agency agreement with the department, subject to Chapter 3, Package Agencies.

(b)  A resort licensee who offers for sale, sells, serves, or otherwise furnishes an alcoholic beverage as provided in Subsection (2)(a), shall offer for sale, sell, or furnish the alcoholic beverage:

(i)  if on a sublicense premises, in accordance with the operational requirements under the provisions applicable to the sublicense, except as provided in Section 32A-4a-402;

(ii)  if under a permit issued under this title, in accordance with the operational requirements under the provisions applicable to the permit; and

(iii)  if as a package agency, in accordance with the contract with the department and Chapter 3, Package Agencies.

(3)  A person involved in the sale or service of an alcoholic beverage under a resort license shall:

(a)  be under the supervision and direction of the resort licensee; and

(b)  complete the seminar provided for in Section 62A-15-401.

(4) (a)  A resort licensee may not purchase liquor except from a state store or package agency.

(b)  Liquor purchased by a resort licensee in accordance with this Subsection (4) may be transported by the resort licensee from the place of purchase to the boundary of the resort building.

(c)  A resort licensee shall pay for liquor in accordance with rules made by the commission.

(5)  An alcoholic beverage may not be stored, served, or sold in a place other than as designated in the resort licensee's application, except that an additional location in the boundary of the resort building may be approved in accordance with guidelines approved by the commission.

(6)  An alcoholic beverage storage area on the boundary of the resort building shall remain locked at all times other than those hours and days when alcoholic beverage sales are authorized by law.

(7)  A resort licensee may not engage in a public promotion involving or offering a free alcoholic beverage to the general public.

(8)  A resort licensee may not on the boundary of the resort building:

(a)  engage in or permit any form of gambling, as defined and proscribed in Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling;

(b)  have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed by Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling; or

(c)  engage in or permit a contest, game, gaming scheme, or gaming device that requires the risking of something of value for a return or for an outcome when the return or outcome is based upon an element of chance, excluding the playing of an amusement device that confers only an immediate and unrecorded right of replay not exchangeable for value.

(9) (a)  A resort licensee shall maintain accounting and such other records and documents as the commission or department may require.

(b)  A resort licensee or person acting for the resort licensee, who knowingly forges, falsifies, alters, cancels, destroys, conceals, or removes an entry in a book of account or other document of the resort licensee required to be made, maintained, or preserved by this title or the rules of the commission for the purpose of deceiving the commission, the department, or an official or employee of the commission or department, is subject to:

(i)  the suspension or revocation of the resort license; and

(ii)  possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.

(10) (a)  Subject to Subsection (10)(b), a resort license shall operate in a manner so that at least 70% of the annual aggregate of the gross receipts related to the sale of food or beverages for the resort license and each of its sublicenses is from the sale of food, not including:

(i)  mix for an alcoholic beverage; and

(ii)  a charge in connection with the service of an alcoholic beverage.

(b)  In calculating the annual aggregate of the gross receipts described in Subsection (10)(a), a resort licensee is not required to include in the calculation monies from the sale of a bottle of wine by the retail licensee or under a sublicense in excess of $250.

(11) (a)  Room service of an alcoholic beverage to a lodging accommodation of a resort licensee shall be provided in person by a resort licensee employee only to an adult occupant in the lodging accommodation.

(b)  An alcoholic beverage may not be left outside a lodging accommodation for retrieval by an occupant.

(c)  A resort licensee may only provide an alcoholic beverage for room service in a sealed container.

(12)  A resort licensee or an employee of the resort licensee may not knowingly allow a person on the boundary of the resort building to, in violation of Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or Chapter 37a, Utah Drug Paraphernalia Act:

(a)  sell, distribute, possess, or use a controlled substance, as defined in Section 58-37-2; or

(b)  use, deliver, or possess with the intent to deliver drug paraphernalia, as defined in Section 58-37a-3.

(13)  A person may not transfer a resort license from one business location to another location without prior written approval of the commission.

(14) (a)  A resort licensee may not sell, transfer, assign, exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the license to another person, whether for monetary gain or not.

(b)  A resort license has no monetary value for the purpose of any type of disposition.

(15) (a)  A resort licensee may not close or cease operation of a resort licensee for a period longer than 240 hours, unless:

(i)  the resort licensee notifies the department in writing at least seven days before the day on which the resort licensee closes or ceases operation; and

(ii)  the closure or cessation of operation is first approved by the department.

(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (15)(a), in the case of emergency closure, the resort licensee shall immediately notify the department by telephone.

(c) (i)  The department may authorize a closure or cessation of operation for a period not to exceed 60 days.

(ii)  The department may extend the initial period an additional 30 days upon:

(A)  written request of the resort licensee; and

(B)  a showing of good cause.

(iii)  A closure or cessation of operation may not exceed a total of 90 days without commission approval.

(d)  The notice required by Subsection (15)(a) shall include:

(i)  the dates of closure or cessation of operation;

(ii)  the reason for the closure or cessation of operation; and

(iii)  the date on which the resort licensee will reopen or resume operation.

(e)  Failure of the resort licensee to provide notice and to obtain department authorization before closure or cessation of operation results in an automatic forfeiture of:

(i)  the resort license; and

(ii)  the unused portion of the resort license fee for the remainder of the license year effective immediately.

(f)  Failure of the resort licensee to reopen or resume operation by the approved date results in an automatic forfeiture of:

(i)  the resort license; and

(ii)  the unused portion of the resort license fee for the remainder of the license year.

