13-14-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Advisory board" or "board" means the Utah Motor Vehicle Franchise
Advisory Board created in Section 13-14-103.
(2)  "Affiliate" has the meaning set forth in Section 16-10a-102.
(3)  "Aftermarket product" means any product or service not included in the
franchisor's suggested retail price of the new motor vehicle, as that price
appears on the label required by 15 U.S.C. Sec. 1232(f).
(4)  "Dealership" means a site or location in this state:
(a)  at which a franchisee conducts the business of a new motor vehicle
dealer; and
(b)  that is identified as a new motor vehicle dealer's principal place of
business for licensing purposes under Section 41-3-204.
(5)  "Department" means the Department of Commerce.
(6)  "Executive director" means the executive director of the Department of
Commerce.
(7) (a)  "Franchise" or "franchise agreement" means a written agreement, or in
the absence of a written agreement, then a course of dealing or a practice for
a definite or indefinite period, in which:
(i)  a person grants to another person a license to use a trade name,
trademark, service mark, or related characteristic; and
(ii)  a community of interest exists in the marketing of new motor vehicles,
new motor vehicle parts, and services related to the sale or lease of new
motor vehicles at wholesale or retail.
(b)  "Franchise" or "franchise agreement" includes a sales and service
agreement.
(8)  "Franchisee" means a person with whom a franchisor has agreed or
permitted, in writing or in practice, to purchase, sell, or offer for sale new
motor vehicles manufactured, produced, represented, or distributed by the
franchisor.
(9)  "Franchisor" means a person who has, in writing or in practice, agreed
with or permits a franchisee to purchase, sell, or offer for sale new motor
vehicles manufactured, produced, assembled, represented, or distributed by the
franchisor, and includes:
(a)  the manufacturer, producer, assembler, or distributor of the new motor
vehicles;
(b)  an intermediate distributor; and
(c)  an agent, officer, or field or area representative of the franchisor.
(10)  "Lead" means the referral by a franchisor to a franchisee of a potential
customer whose contact information was obtained from a franchisor's program,
process, or system designed to generate referrals for the purchase or lease of
a new motor vehicle, or for service work related to the franchisor's vehicles.
(11)  "Line-make" means:
(a)  for other than a recreational vehicle, the motor vehicles that are
offered for sale, lease, or distribution under a common name, trademark,
service mark, or brand name of the franchisor; or
(b)  for a recreational vehicle, a specific series of recreational vehicle
product that:
(i)  is identified by a common series trade name or trademark;
(ii)  is targeted to a particular market segment, as determined by decor,
features, equipment, size, weight, and price range;
(iii)  has a length and floor plan that distinguish the recreational vehicle
from other recreational vehicles with substantially the same decor, features,
equipment, size, weight, and price;
(iv)  belongs to a single, distinct classification of recreational vehicle
product type having a substantial degree of commonality in the construction of
the chassis, frame, and body; and
(v)  a franchise agreement authorizes a dealer to sell.
(12)  "Mile" means 5,280 feet.
(13)  "Motor home" means a self-propelled vehicle, primarily designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, or vacation use.
(14) (a)  "Motor vehicle" means:
(i)  a travel trailer;
(ii)  except as provided in Subsection (14)(b), a motor vehicle as defined in
Section 41-3-102;
(iii)  a semitrailer as defined in Section 41-1a-102;
(iv)  a trailer as defined in Section 41-1a-102; and
(v)  a recreational vehicle.
(b)  "Motor vehicle" does not include:
(i)  a motorcycle as defined in Section 41-1a-102;
(ii)  an off-highway vehicle as defined in Section 41-3-102; and
(iii)  a small trailer as defined in Section 41-3-102.
(15)  "New motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle as defined in Subsection (14)
that has never been titled or registered and has been driven less than 7,500
miles, unless the motor vehicle is a trailer, travel trailer, or semitrailer,
in which case the mileage limit does not apply.
(16)  "New motor vehicle dealer" is a person who is licensed under Subsection
41-3-202(1)(a) to sell new motor vehicles.
(17)  "Notice" or "notify" includes both traditional written communications
and all reliable forms of electronic communication unless expressly prohibited
by statute or rule.
(18) (a)  "Recreational vehicle" means a vehicular unit other than a mobile
home, primarily designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, or
vacation use, that is either self-propelled or pulled by another vehicle.
(b)  "Recreational vehicle" includes:
(i)  a travel trailer;
(ii)  a camping trailer;
(iii)  a motor home;
(iv)  a fifth wheel trailer; and
(v)  a van.
(19) (a)  "Relevant market area," except with respect to recreational
vehicles, means:
(i)  the county in which a dealership is to be established or relocated; and
(ii)  the area within a 15-mile radius from the site of the new or relocated
dealership.
(b)  "Relevant market area," with respect to recreational vehicles, means:
(i)  the county in which the dealership is to be established or relocated; and
(ii)  the area within a 35-mile radius from the site of the new or relocated
dealership.
(20)  "Sale, transfer, or assignment" means any disposition of a franchise or
an interest in a franchise, with or without consideration, including a
bequest, inheritance, gift, exchange, lease, or license.
(21)  "Serve" or "served," unless expressly indicated otherwise by statute or
rule, includes any reliable form of communication.
(22)  "Site-control agreement" means an agreement, however denominated and
regardless of its form or of the parties to it, that has the effect of:
(a)  controlling in any way the use and development of the premises upon which
a franchisee's business operations are located;
(b)  requiring a franchisee to establish or maintain an exclusive dealership
facility on the premises upon which the franchisee's business operations are
located; or
(c)  restricting the ability of the franchisee or, if the franchisee leases
the dealership premises, the franchisee's lessor to transfer, sell, lease,
develop, redevelop, or change the use of some or all of the dealership
premises, whether by sublease, lease, collateral pledge of lease, right of
first refusal to purchase or lease, option to purchase or lease, or any
similar arrangement.
(23)  "Travel trailer," "camping trailer," or "fifth wheel trailer" means a
portable vehicle without motive power, designed as a temporary dwelling for
travel, recreational, or vacation use that does not require a special highway
movement permit when drawn by a self-propelled motor vehicle.
(24)  "Written," "write," "in writing," or other variations of those terms
shall include all reliable forms of electronic communication.
