72-5-111.   Disposal of real property.

(1) (a)  If the department determines that any real property or interest in real property, acquired for a highway purpose, is no longer necessary for the purpose, the department may lease, sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of the real property or interest in the real property.

(b) (i)  Real property may be sold at private or public sale.

(ii)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(c) related to exchanges and Subsection (1)(d) related to the proceeds of any sale of real property from a maintenance facility, proceeds of any sale shall be deposited with the state treasurer and credited to the Transportation Fund.

(c)  If approved by the commission, real property or an interest in real property may be exchanged by the department for other real property or interest in real property, including improvements, for highway purposes.

(d)  Proceeds from the sale of real property or an interest in real property from a maintenance facility may be used by the department for the purchase or improvement of another maintenance facility, including real property.

(2) (a)  In the disposition of real property at any private sale, first consideration shall be given to the original grantor or the original grantor's heirs.

(b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 78B-6-521, if no portion of a parcel of real property acquired by the department is used for transportation purposes, then the original grantor or the grantor's heirs shall be given the opportunity to repurchase the parcel of real property at the department's original purchase price from the grantor.

(c)  In accordance with Section 72-5-404, this Subsection (2) does not apply to property rights acquired in proposed transportation corridors using funds from the Marda Dillree Corridor Preservation Fund created in Section 72-2-117.

(3) (a)  Any sale, exchange, or disposal of real property or interest in real property made by the department under this section, is exempt from the mineral reservation provisions of Title 65A, Chapter 6, Mineral Leases.

(b)  Any deed made and delivered by the department under this section without specific reservations in the deed is a conveyance of all the state's right, title, and interest in the real property or interest in the real property.



Amended by Chapter 121, 2012 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 129, 2012 General Session

