72-5-307.   Agreement affecting R.S. 2477 right-of-way.
(1)  Before a political subdivision of the state enters into an agreement with
the federal government affecting the rights, status, or scope of an R.S. 2477
right-of-way, the political subdivision shall give written notice of its
intent to enter the agreement, together with a copy of the proposed final
agreement, to the governing body of every county of the state through which
the right-of-way extends.
(2)  After receiving notice of the proposed agreement, the governing body of a
county shall, within 60 days, give written notice to the political subdivision
that:
(a)  the county does not object to the proposed agreement; or
(b)  the county objects to the proposed agreement.
(3)  If the governing body of a county through which an R.S. 2477 right-of-way
extends objects to a proposed agreement in accordance with Subsection (2), the
political subdivision proposing to enter into the agreement may only enter
into the agreement if it obtains declaratory relief from the district court.
The relief shall be granted if the political subdivision shows by a
preponderance of evidence that the proposed agreement does not materially
affect the objecting county's interests.
(4)  If the governing body of a county through which an R.S. 2477 right-of-way
extends fails to object within 60 days after receiving notice, in accordance
with Subsection (2), the county is considered not to have an objection.
(5)  If a political subdivision fails to provide notice of a proposed
agreement to a county as required by Subsection (1), the political subdivision
is considered without authority to enter into the agreement, and the agreement
is void.
(6)  In accordance with the joint title provisions in Subsection 72-5-302(2),
an agreement between a political subdivision of the state and the federal
government may not affect the interests of the state regarding an R.S. 2477
right-of-way, unless the state is also a party to the agreement.
(7)  This section does not affect an agreement made solely for the purpose of:
(a)  maintenance, as defined under Section 72-5-301; or
(b)  preserving safe travel of an R.S. 2477 right-of-way.
