67-19-3.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Agency" means any department or unit of Utah state government with authority to employ personnel.

(2)  "Career service" means positions under schedule B as defined in Section 67-19-15.

(3)  "Career service employee" means an employee who has successfully completed a probationary period of service in a position covered by the career service.

(4)  "Career service status" means status granted to employees who successfully complete probationary periods for competitive career service positions.

(5)  "Classified service" means those positions subject to the classification and compensation provisions of Section 67-19-12.

(6)  "Controlled substance" means controlled substance as defined in Section 58-37-2.

(7) (a)  "Demotion" means a disciplinary action resulting in a reduction of an employee's current actual wage.

(b)  "Demotion" does not mean:

(i)  a nondisciplinary movement of an employee to another position without a reduction in the current actual wage; or

(ii)  a reclassification of an employee's position under the provisions of Subsection 67-19-12(3) and rules made by the department.

(8)  "Department" means the Department of Human Resource Management.

(9)  "Disability" means a physical or mental disability as defined and protected under the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 12101 et seq.

(10)  "Employee" means any individual in a paid status covered by the career service or classified service provisions of this chapter.

(11)  "Examining instruments" means written or other types of proficiency tests.

(12)  "Executive director," except where otherwise specified, means the executive director of the Department of Human Resource Management.

(13)  "Human resource function" means those duties and responsibilities specified:

(a)  under Section 67-19-6;

(b)  under rules of the department; and

(c)  under other state or federal statute.

(14)  "Market comparability adjustment" means a salary range adjustment determined necessary through a market survey of salary ranges of a reasonable cross section of comparable benchmark positions in private and public employment.

(15)  "Probationary employee" means an employee serving a probationary period in a career service position but who does not have career service status.

(16)  "Probationary period" means that period of time determined by the department that an employee serves in a career service position as part of the hiring process before career service status is granted to the employee.

(17)  "Probationary status" means the status of an employee between the employee's hiring and the granting of career service status.

(18)  "Temporary employee" means career service exempt employees on schedule IN or TL under Section 67-19-15.

(19)  "Total compensation" means salaries and wages, bonuses, paid leave, group insurance plans, retirement, and all other benefits offered to state employees as inducements to work for the state.



Amended by Chapter 249, 2010 General Session

