67-19-12.   State pay plans -- Applicability of section -- Exemptions --
Duties of the executive director.
(1) (a)  This section, and the rules adopted by the department to implement
this section, apply to each career and noncareer employee not specifically
exempted under Subsection (2).
(b)  If not exempted under Subsection (2), an employee is considered to be in
classified service.
(2)  The following employees are exempt from this section:
(a)  members of the Legislature and legislative employees;
(b)  members of the judiciary and judicial employees;
(c)  elected members of the executive branch and employees under schedule AC
as provided under Subsection 67-19-15(1)(c);
(d)  employees of the State Board of Education who are licensed by the State
Board of Education;
(e)  officers, faculty, and other employees of state institutions of higher
education;
(f)  employees in a position that is specified by statute to be exempt from
this Subsection (2);
(g)  employees in the Office of the Attorney General;
(h)  department heads and other persons appointed by the governor under
statute;
(i)  exempt employees as provided under Subsection 67-19-15(1)(l);
(j)  employees of the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind who are:
(i)  educators as defined by Section 53A-25b-102; or
(ii)  educational interpreters as classified by the department; and
(k)  temporary employees under schedule IN or TL as provided under Subsections
67-19-15(1)(o) and (p).
(3) (a)  The executive director shall prepare, maintain, and revise a position
classification plan for each employee position not exempted under Subsection
(2) to provide equal pay for equal work.
(b)  Classification of positions shall be based upon similarity of duties
performed and responsibilities assumed, so that the same job requirements and
the same salary range may be applied equitably to each position in the same
class.
(c)  The executive director shall allocate or reallocate the position of each
employee in classified service to one of the classes in the classification
plan.
(d) (i)  The department shall conduct periodic studies and desk audits to
provide that the classification plan remains reasonably current and reflects
the duties and responsibilities assigned to and performed by employees.
(ii)  The executive director shall determine the schedule for studies and desk
audits after considering factors such as changes in duties and
responsibilities of positions or agency reorganizations.
(4) (a)  With the approval of the governor, the executive director shall
develop and adopt pay plans for each position in classified service.
(b)  The executive director shall design each pay plan to achieve, to the
degree that funds permit, comparability of state salary ranges to salary
ranges used by private enterprise and other public employment for similar
work.
(c)  The executive director shall adhere to the following in developing each
pay plan:
(i)  Each pay plan shall consist of sufficient salary ranges to permit
adequate salary differential among the various classes of positions in the
classification plan.
(ii) (A)  The executive director shall assign each class of positions in the
classification plan to a salary range and shall set the width of the salary
range to reflect the normal growth and productivity potential of employees in
that class.
(B)  The width of the ranges need not be uniform for all classes of positions
in the plan.
(iii) (A)  The executive director shall issue rules for the administration of
pay plans.
(B)  The rules may provide for exceptional performance increases and for a
program of incentive awards for cost-saving suggestions and other commendable
acts of employees.
(C)  The executive director shall issue rules providing for salary
adjustments.
(iv)  Merit increases shall be granted, on a uniform and consistent basis in
accordance with appropriations made by the Legislature, to employees who
receive a rating of "successful" or higher in an annual evaluation of their
productivity and performance.
(v)  By October 31 of each year, the executive director shall submit market
comparability adjustments to the director of the Governor's Office of Planning
and Budget for consideration to be included as part of the affected agency's
base budgets.
(vi)  By October 31 of each year, the executive director shall recommend a
compensation package to the governor.
(vii) (A)  Adjustments shall incorporate the results of a total compensation
market survey of salary ranges and benefits of a reasonable cross section of
comparable benchmark positions in private and public employment in the state.
(B)  The survey may also study comparable unusual positions requiring
recruitment in other states.
(C)  The executive director may cooperate with other public and private
employers in conducting the survey.
(viii) (A)  The executive director shall establish criteria to assure the
adequacy and accuracy of the survey and shall use methods and techniques
similar to and consistent with those used in private sector surveys.
(B)  Except as provided under Sections 67-19-12.1 and 67-19-12.3, the survey
shall include a reasonable cross section of employers.
(C)  The executive director may cooperate with or participate in any survey
conducted by other public and private employers.
(D)  The executive director shall obtain information for the purpose of
constructing the survey from the Division of Workforce Information and Payment
Services and shall include employer name, number of persons employed by the
employer, employer contact information and job titles, county code, and salary
if available.
(E)  The department shall acquire and protect the needed records in compliance
with the provisions of Section 35A-4-312.
(ix)  The establishing of a salary range is a nondelegable activity and is not
appealable under the grievance procedures of Sections 67-19-30 through
67-19-32, Chapter 19a, Grievance Procedures, or otherwise.
(x)  The governor shall:
(A)  consider salary adjustments recommended under Subsection (4)(c)(vi) in
preparing the executive budget and shall recommend the method of distributing
the adjustments;
(B)  submit compensation recommendations to the Legislature; and
(C)  support the recommendation with schedules indicating the cost to
individual departments and the source of funds.
(xi)  If funding is approved by the Legislature in a general appropriations
act, the adjustments take effect on the July 1 following the enactment.
(5) (a)  The executive director shall regularly evaluate the total
compensation program of state employees in the classified service.
(b)  The department shall determine if employee benefits are comparable to
those offered by other private and public employers using information from:
(i)  the most recent edition of the Employee Benefits Survey Data conducted by
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Research Center; or
(ii)  the most recent edition of a nationally recognized benefits survey.
(6) (a)  The executive director shall submit proposals for a state employee
compensation plan to the governor by October 31 of each year, setting forth
findings and recommendations affecting employee compensation.
(b)  The governor shall consider the executive director's proposals in
preparing budget recommendations for the Legislature.
(c)  The governor's budget proposals to the Legislature shall include a
specific recommendation on employee compensation.
