67-19-13.5.   Department provides payroll services to executive branch agencies -- Report.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a) (i)  "Executive branch entity" means a department, division, agency, board, or office within the executive branch of state government that employs a person who is paid through the central payroll system developed by the Division of Finance as of December 31, 2011.

(ii)  "Executive branch entity" does not include the Offices of the Attorney General, State Treasurer, State Auditor, Department of Transportation, Department of Technology Services, or the Department of Natural Resources.

(b) (i)  "Payroll services" means using the central payroll system as directed by the Division of Finance to:

(A)  enter and validate payroll reimbursements, which include reimbursements for mileage, a service award, and other wage types;

(B)  calculate, process, and validate a retirement;

(C)  enter a leave adjustment; and

(D)  certify payroll by ensuring an entry complies with a rule or policy adopted by the department or the Division of Finance.

(ii)  "Payroll services" does not mean:

(A)  a function related to payroll that is performed by an employee of the Division of Finance;

(B)  a function related to payroll that is performed by an executive branch agency on behalf of a person who is not an employee of the executive branch agency;

(C)  the entry of time worked by an executive branch agency employee into the central payroll system; or

(D)  approval or verification by a supervisor or designee of the entry of time worked.

(2) (a)  Except as provided by Subsection (2)(b), on or before September 19, 2012, the department shall provide payroll services to all executive branch entities.

(b)  On or before June 30, 2013, the department shall provide payroll services to the Department of Public Safety for an employee who is certified by the Peace Officer Standards and Training Division.

(3) (a)  After September 19, 2012, an executive branch entity, other than the department, the Division of Finance, or the Department of Public Safety, may not create a full-time equivalent position or part-time position, or request an appropriation to fund a full-time equivalent position or part-time position for the purpose of providing payroll services to the entity.

(b)  After June 30, 2013, the Department of Public Safety may not create a full-time equivalent position or part-time position, or request an appropriation to fund a full-time equivalent position or part-time position for the purpose of providing payroll services.

(4)  The Department of Transportation, the Department of Technology Services, and the Department of Natural Resources shall report on the inability to transfer payroll services to the department or the progress of transferring payroll services to the department:

(a)  to the Government Operations Interim Committee before October 30, 2012; and

(b)  to the Infrastructure and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee on or before February 11, 2013.

