67-19-43.   State employee matching supplemental defined contribution benefit.

(1)  As used in this section, "qualifying employee" means an employee who is:

(a)  in a position that is receiving retirement benefits under Title 49, Utah State Retirement and Insurance Benefit Act; and

(b)  not an employee who is reemployed as defined in Section 49-11-102.

(2)  Subject to the requirements of Subsection (3) and beginning on or after January 4, 2014, an employer shall make a biweekly matching contribution to every qualifying employee's defined contribution plan qualified under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, subject to federal requirements and limitations, which is sponsored by the Utah State Retirement Board.

(3) (a)  In accordance with the requirements of this Subsection (3), each qualifying employee shall be eligible to receive the same dollar amount for the contribution under Subsection (2).

(b)  A qualifying employee:

(i)  shall receive the contribution amount determined under Subsection (3)(c) if the qualifying employee makes a voluntary personal contribution to the defined contribution plan account described in Subsection (2) in an amount equal to or greater than the employer's contribution amount determined in Subsection (3)(c);

(ii)  shall receive a partial contribution amount that is equal to the qualifying employee's personal contribution amount if the employee makes a voluntary personal contribution to the defined contribution plan account described in Subsection (2) in an amount less than the employer's contribution amount determined in Subsection (3)(c); or

(iii)  may not receive a contribution under Subsection (2) if the qualifying employee does not make a voluntary personal contribution to the defined contribution plan account described in Subsection (2).

(c) (i)  Subject to the maximum limit under Subsection (3)(c)(iii), the Legislature shall annually determine the contribution amount that an employer shall provide to each qualifying employee under Subsection (2).

(ii)  The department shall make recommendations annually to the Legislature on the contribution amount required under Subsection (2), in consultation with the Governor's Office of Management and Budget and the Division of Finance.

(iii)  The biweekly matching contribution amount required under Subsection (2) may not exceed $26 for each qualifying employee.

(4)  A qualifying employee is eligible to receive the biweekly contribution under this section for any pay period in which the employee is in a paid status or other status protected by federal or state law.

(5)  The employer and employee contributions made under this section vest immediately upon deposit and can be withdrawn by the employee at any time, subject to Internal Revenue Code regulations on the withdrawals.

(6)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the executive director shall make rules establishing procedures to implement the provisions of this section.



Enacted by Chapter 277, 2013 General Session

