20A-14-103.   State Board of Education members -- When elected -- Qualifications -- Avoiding conflicts of interest.

(1) (a)  In 2002 and every four years thereafter, one member each shall be elected from new Districts 2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 14, and 15 to serve a four-year term.

(b)  In 2004 and every four years thereafter, one member each shall be elected from new Districts 4, 7, 8, 11, 12, and 13 to serve a four-year term.

(c) (i)  Because of the combination of certain former districts, the state school board members elected from old Districts 2 and 4 who will reside in new District 1 may not serve out the term for which they were elected, but shall stand for election in 2002 for a term of office of four years from the realigned district in which each resides.

(ii)  If one of the incumbent state school board members from new District 1 indicates in writing to the lieutenant governor that the school board member will not seek reelection, that incumbent state school board member may serve until January 1, 2003 and the other incumbent state school board member shall serve out the term for which the member was elected, which is until January 1, 2005.

(2) (a)  A person seeking election to the state school board must have been a resident of the state school board district in which the person is seeking election for at least one year as of the date of the election.

(b)  A person who has resided within the state school board district, as the boundaries of the district exist on the date of the election, for one year immediately preceding the date of the election shall be considered to have met the requirements of this Subsection (2).

(3)  A member shall:

(a)  be and remain a registered voter in the state board district from which the member was elected or appointed; and

(b)  maintain the member's primary residence within the state board district from which the member was elected or appointed during the member's term of office.

(4)  A member of the State Board of Education may not, during the member's term of office, also serve as an employee of:

(a)  the board;

(b)  the Utah State Office of Education; or

(c)  the Utah State Office of Rehabilitation.

