20A-14-104.   Becoming a candidate for membership on the State Board of
Education -- Nominating and recruiting committee -- Membership -- Procedure --
Duties.
(1) (a)  Persons interested in becoming a candidate for the State Board of
Education shall file a declaration of candidacy according to the procedures
and requirements of Sections 20A-9-201 and 20A-9-202.
(b)  By May 1 of the year in which a State Board of Education member's term
expires, the lieutenant governor shall submit the name of each person who has
filed a declaration of candidacy for the State Board of Education to the
nominating and recruiting committee for the State Board of Education.
(2)  By November 1 of the year preceding each regular general election year, a
nominating and recruiting committee consisting of 12 members, each to serve a
two-year term, shall be appointed by the governor as follows:
(a)  one member shall be appointed to represent each of the following business
and industry sectors:
(i)  manufacturing and mining;
(ii)  transportation and public utilities;
(iii)  service, trade, and information technology;
(iv)  finance, insurance, and real estate;
(v)  construction; and
(vi)  agriculture; and
(b)  one member shall be appointed to represent each of the following
education sectors:
(i)  teachers;
(ii)  school administrators;
(iii)  parents;
(iv)  local school board members;
(v)  charter schools; and
(vi)  higher education.
(3) (a)  The members appointed under Subsections (2)(a)(i) through (vi) and
(2)(b)(i) through (vi) shall be appointed from lists containing at least two
names submitted by organizations representing each of the respective sectors.
(b)  At least one member of the nominating and recruiting committee shall
reside within each state board district in which a member's term expires
during the committee's two-year term of office.
(4) (a)  The members shall elect one member to serve as chair for the
committee.
(b)  The chair, or another member of the committee designated by the chair,
shall schedule and convene all committee meetings.
(c)  Any formal action by the committee requires the approval of a majority of
committee members.
(d)  Members of the nominating and recruiting committee shall serve without
compensation, but they may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the
performance of their official duties as established by the Division of
Finance.
(5)  The nominating and recruiting committee shall:
(a)  recruit potential candidates for membership on the State Board of
Education prior to the deadline to file a declaration of candidacy;
(b)  prepare a list of candidates for membership on the State Board of
Education for each state board district subject to election in that year using
the qualifications under Subsection (6);
(c)  submit a list of at least three candidates for each state board position
to the governor by July 1; and
(d)  ensure that the list includes appropriate background information on each
candidate.
(6)  The nominating committee shall select a broad variety of candidates who
possess outstanding professional qualifications relating to the powers and
duties of the State Board of Education, including experience in the following
areas:
(a)  business and industry administration;
(b)  business and industry human resource management;
(c)  business and industry finance;
(d)  business and industry, including expertise in:
(i)  metrics and evaluation;
(ii)  manufacturing;
(iii)  retailing;
(iv)  natural resources;
(v)  information technology;
(vi)  construction;
(vii)  banking;
(viii)  science and engineering; and
(ix)  medical and healthcare;
(e)  higher education administration;
(f)  applied technology education;
(g)  public education administration;
(h)  public education instruction;
(i)  economic development;
(j)  labor; and
(k)  other life experiences that would benefit the State Board of Education.
