20A-14-201.   Boards of education -- School board districts -- Creation -- Reapportionment.

(1) (a)  The county legislative body, for local school districts whose boundaries encompass more than a single municipality, and  the municipal legislative body, for school districts contained completely within a municipality, shall divide the local school district into local school board districts as required under Subsection 20A-14-202(1)(a).

(b)  The county and municipal legislative bodies shall divide the school district so that the local school board districts are substantially equal in population and are as contiguous and compact as practicable.

(2) (a)  County and municipal legislative bodies shall reapportion district boundaries to meet the population, compactness, and contiguity requirements of this section:

(i)  at least once every 10 years;

(ii)  if a new district is created:

(A)  within 45 days after the canvass of an election at which voters approve the creation of a new district; and

(B)  at least 60 days before the candidate filing deadline for a school board election;

(iii)  whenever districts are consolidated;

(iv)  whenever a district loses more than 20% of the population of the entire school district to another district;

(v)  whenever a district loses more than 50% of the population of a local school board district to another district;

(vi)  whenever a district receives new residents equal to at least 20% of the population of the district at the time of the last reapportionment because of a transfer of territory from another district; and

(vii)  whenever it is necessary to increase the membership of a board from five to seven members as a result of changes in student membership under Section 20A-14-202.

(b)  If a school district receives territory containing less than 20% of the population of the transferee district at the time of the last reapportionment, the local school board may assign the new territory to one or more existing school board districts.

(3) (a)  Reapportionment does not affect the right of any school board member to complete the term for which the member was elected.

(b) (i)  After reapportionment, representation in a local school board district shall be determined as provided in this Subsection (3).

(ii)  If only one board member whose term extends beyond reapportionment lives within a reapportioned local school board district, that board member shall represent that local school board district.

(iii) (A)  If two or more members whose terms extend beyond reapportionment live within a reapportioned local school board district, the members involved shall select one member by lot to represent the local school board district.

(B)  The other members shall serve at-large for the remainder of their terms.

(C)  The at-large board members shall serve in addition to the designated number of board members for the board in question for the remainder of their terms.

(iv)  If there is no board member living within a local school board district whose term extends beyond reapportionment, the seat shall be treated as vacant and filled as provided in this part.

(4) (a)  If, before an election affected by reapportionment, the county or municipal legislative body that conducted the reapportionment determines that one or more members shall be elected to terms of two years to meet this part's requirements for staggered terms, the legislative body shall determine by lot which of the reapportioned local school board districts will elect members to two-year terms and which will elect members to four-year terms.

(b)  All subsequent elections are for four-year terms.

(5)  Within 10 days after any local school board district boundary change, the county or municipal legislative body making the change shall send an accurate map or plat of the boundary change to the Automated Geographic Reference Center created under Section 63F-1-506.

