20A-14-202.   Local boards of education -- Membership -- When elected -- Qualifications -- Avoiding conflicts of interest.

(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), the board of education of a school district with a student population of up to 24,000 students shall consist of five members.

(b)  The board of education of a school district with a student population of more than 10,000 students but fewer than 24,000 students shall increase from five to seven members beginning with the 2004 regular general election.

(c)  The board of education of a school district with a student population of 24,000 or more students shall consist of seven members.

(d)  Student population is based on the October 1 student count submitted by districts to the State Office of Education.

(e)  If the number of members of a local school board is required to change under Subsection (1)(b), the board shall be reapportioned and elections conducted as provided in Sections 20A-14-201 and 20A-14-203.

(f)  A school district which now has or increases to a seven-member board shall maintain a seven-member board regardless of subsequent changes in student population.

(g) (i)  Members of a local board of education shall be elected at each regular general election.

(ii)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(g)(iii), no more than three members of a local board of education may be elected to a five-member board, nor more than four members elected to a seven-member board, in any election year.

(iii)  More than three members of a local board of education may be elected to a five-member board and more than four members elected to a seven-member board in any election year only when required by reapportionment or to fill a vacancy or to implement Subsection (1)(b).

(h)  One member of the local board of education shall be elected from each local school board district.

(2) (a)  For an election held after the 2008 general election, a person seeking election to a local school board shall have been a resident of the local school board district in which the person is seeking election for at least one year as of the date of the election.

(b)  A person who has resided within the local school board district, as the boundaries of the district exist on the date of the election, for one year immediately preceding the date of the election shall be considered to have met the requirements of this Subsection (2).

(3)  A member of a local school board shall:

(a)  be and remain a registered voter in the local school board district from which the member is elected or appointed; and

(b)  maintain the member's primary residence within the local school board district from which the member is elected or appointed during the member's term of office.

(4)  A member of a local school board may not, during the member's term in office, also serve as an employee of that board.

