53A-2-103.   Transfer of property to new school district -- Rights and
obligations of new school board -- Outstanding indebtedness -- Special tax.
(1)  On July 1 following the approval of the creation of a new school district
under Section 53A-2-102, the local school boards of the former districts shall
convey and deliver all school property to the local school board of the new
district.  Title vests in the new board.  All rights, claims, and causes of
action to or for the property, for the use or the income from the property,
for conversion, disposition, or withholding of the property, or for any damage
or injury to the property vest at once in the new board.
(2)  The new board may bring and maintain actions to recover, protect, and
preserve the property and rights of the district schools and to enforce
contracts.
(3)  The new board shall assume and be liable for all outstanding debts and
obligations of each of the former school districts.
(4)  All of the bonded indebtedness, outstanding debts, and obligations of a
former district, which cannot be reasonably paid from the assets of the former
district, shall be paid by a special tax levied by the new board as needed.
The tax shall be levied upon the property within the former district which was
liable for the indebtedness at the time of consolidation.  If bonds are
approved in the new district under Section 53A-18-102, the special tax shall
be discontinued and the bonded indebtedness paid as any other bonded
indebtedness of the new district.
(5)  Bonded indebtedness of a former district which has been refunded shall be
paid in the same manner as that which the new district assumes under Section
53A-18-101.
(6)  State funds received by the new district under Section 53A-21-202 may be
applied toward the payment of outstanding bonded indebtedness of a former
district in the same proportion as the bonded indebtedness of the territory
within the former district bears to the total bonded indebtedness of the
districts combined.
