53A-2-104.   Transfer of a portion of a school district -- Board resolution
-- Board petition -- Elector petition -- Transfer election.
(1)  Part of a school district may be transferred to another district in one
of the following ways:
(a)  presentation to the county legislative body of each of the affected
counties of a resolution requesting the transfer, approved by at least four-
fifths of the members of the local board of education of each affected school
district;
(b)  presentation to the county legislative body of each affected county of a
petition requesting that the electors vote on the transfer, signed by a
majority of the members of the local school board of each affected school
district; or
(c)  presentation to the county legislative body of each affected county of a
petition requesting that the electors vote on the transfer, signed by 15% of
the qualified electors in each of the affected school districts within that
county.
(2) (a)  If an annexation of property by a city would result in its residents
being served by more than one school district, then the presidents of the
affected local school boards shall meet within 60 days prior to the effective
date of the annexation to determine whether it would be advisable to adjust
school district boundaries to permit all residents of the expanded city to be
served by a single school district.
(b)  Upon conclusion of the meeting, the local school board presidents shall
prepare a recommendation for presentation to their respective boards as soon
as reasonably possible.
(c)  The boards may then initiate realignment proceedings under Subsection
(1)(a) or (b).
(d)  If a local board rejects realignment under Subsection (1)(a) or (b), the
other board may initiate the following procedures by majority vote within 60
days of the vote rejecting realignment:
(i) (A)  within 30 days after a vote to initiate these procedures, each local
board shall appoint one member to a boundary review committee; or
(B)  if the local board becomes deadlocked in selecting the appointee under
Subsection (2)(d)(i)(A), the board's chair shall make the appointment or serve
as the appointee to the review committee.
(ii)  The two local board-appointed members of the committee shall meet and
appoint a third member of the committee.
(iii)  If the two local board-appointed members are unable to agree on the
appointment of a third member within 30 days after both are appointed, the
State Superintendent of Public Instruction shall appoint the third member.
(iv)  The committee shall meet as necessary to prepare recommendations
concerning resolution of the realignment issue, and shall submit the
recommendations to the affected local boards within six months after the
appointment of the third member of the committee.
(v)  If a majority of the members of each local board accepts the
recommendation of the committee, or accepts the recommendation after amendment
by the boards, then the accepted recommendation shall be implemented.
(vi)  If the committee fails to submit its recommendation within the time
allotted, or if one local board rejects the recommendation, the affected
boards may agree to extend the time for the committee to prepare an acceptable
recommendation or either board may request the State Board of Education to
resolve the question.
(vii)  If the committee has submitted a recommendation which the state board
finds to be reasonably supported by the evidence, the state board shall adopt
the committee's recommendation.
(viii)  The decision of the state board is final.
(3) (a)  The electors of each affected district shall vote on the transfer
requested under Subsection (1)(b) or (c) at an election called for that
purpose, which may be the next general election.
(b)  The election shall be conducted and the returns canvassed as provided by
election law.
(c)  A transfer is effected only if a majority of votes cast by the electors
in both the proposed transferor district and in the proposed transferee
district are in favor of the transfer.
