53A-2-105.   Transfer of school property -- Indebtedness on transferred
property.
(1)  If a transfer of a portion of one school district to another school
district is approved under Section 53A-2-104, the state superintendent and the
superintendents and presidents of the boards of education of each of the
affected school districts shall determine the basis for a transfer of all
school property reasonably and fairly allocable to that portion being
transferred.
(2) (a)  Title to property transferred vests in the transferee board of
education.
(b)  The transfer of a school building that is in operation at the time of
determination shall be made at the close of a fiscal year.
(c)  The transfer of all other school property shall be made five days after
approval of the transfer of territory under Section 53A-2-104.
(3) (a)  The individuals referred to in Subsection (1) shall determine the
portion of bonded indebtedness and other indebtedness of the transferor board
for which the transferred property remains subject to the levy of taxes to pay
a proportionate share of the outstanding indebtedness of the transferor board.
(b)  This is done by:
(i)  determining the amount of the outstanding bonded indebtedness and other
indebtedness of the transferor board of education;
(ii)  determining the total taxable value of the property of the transferor
district and the taxable value of the property to be transferred; and
(iii)  calculating the portion of the indebtedness of the transferor board for
which the transferred portion retains liability.
(4) (a)  The agreement reflecting these determinations takes effect upon being
filed with the State Board of Education.
(b)  The transferred property remains subject to the levy of taxes to pay a
proportionate share of the outstanding indebtedness of the transferor school
board.
(c)  The transferee school board may assume the obligation to pay the
proportionate share of the transferor school board's indebtedness that has
been determined under Subsection (3) to be the obligation of the transferred
portion by the approval of a resolution by a majority of the qualified
electors of the transferee school district at an election called and held for
that purpose under Title 11, Chapter 14, Local Government Bonding Act.
(5)  If the transferee school district assumes the obligation to pay this
proportionate share of the transferor school board's indebtedness, the
transferee school board shall levy a tax in the whole of the transferee
district, including the transferred portion, sufficient to pay the assumed
indebtedness, and shall turn over the proceeds of the tax to the business
administrator of the transferor board.
(6)  If the transferee school board does not assume this obligation, the
transferee school board shall levy a tax on the transferred territory
sufficient to pay the proportionate share of the indebtedness determined under
this section, and shall turn over the proceeds of the tax to the business
administrator of the transferor board.
(7)  For the purposes of school districts affected by repealed laws governing
the annexation of an unincorporated area of a school district by a city which
included what was formerly known as a city school district, transitions of
unincorporated areas and property from the transferor district to the
transferee district in progress on the effective date of this act shall revert
to the boundaries and ownership prior to the initiation of annexation and may
then proceed under this section and Section 53A-2-104.
