53A-2-121.   Tax to pay for indebtedness of divided school district.

(1) (a)  For a new district created prior to May 10, 2011, the local school boards of the remaining and new districts shall determine the portion of the divided school district's bonded indebtedness and other indebtedness for which the property within the new district remains subject to the levy of taxes to pay a proportionate share of the divided school district's outstanding indebtedness.

(b)  The proportionate share of the divided school district's outstanding indebtedness for which property within the new district remains subject to the levy of taxes shall be calculated by determining the proportion that the total assessed valuation of the property within the new district bears to the total assessed valuation of the divided school district:

(i)  in the year immediately preceding the date the new district was created; or

(ii)  at a time mutually agreed upon by the local school boards of the new district and the remaining district.

(c)  The agreement reflecting the determinations made under this Subsection (1) shall take effect upon being filed with the county legislative body and the State Board of Education.

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), the local school board of a new district created prior to May 10, 2011 shall levy a tax on property within the new district sufficient to pay the new district's proportionate share of the indebtedness determined under Subsection (1).

(b)  If a new district has money available to pay the new district's proportionate share of the indebtedness determined under Subsection (1), the new district may abate a property tax to the extent of money available.

(3)  As used in Subsections (4) and (5), "outstanding bonded indebtedness" means debt owed for a general obligation bond issued by the divided school district:

(a)  prior to the creation of the new district; or

(b)  in accordance with a mutual agreement of the local school boards of the remaining and new districts under Subsection (6).

(4)  If a new district is created on or after May 10, 2011, property within the new district and the remaining district is subject to the levy of a tax to pay the divided school district's outstanding bonded indebtedness as provided in Subsection (5).

(5) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b), the local school board of the new district and the local school board of the remaining district shall impose a tax levy at a rate that:

(i)  generates from the combined districts the amount of revenue required each year to meet the outstanding bonded indebtedness of the divided school district; and

(ii)  is uniform within the new district and remaining district.

(b)  A local school board of a new district may abate a property tax required to be imposed under Subsection (5)(a) to the extent the new district has money available to pay to the remaining district the amount of revenue that would be generated within the new district from the tax rate specified in Subsection (5)(a).

(6) (a)  The local school boards of the remaining and new districts shall determine by mutual agreement the disposition of bonds approved but not issued by the divided school district before the creation of the new district based primarily on the representation made to the voters at the time of the bond election.

(b)  Before a determination is made under Subsection (6)(a), a remaining district may not issue bonds approved but not issued before the creation of the new district if property in the new district would be subject to the levy of a tax to pay the bonds.



Amended by Chapter 295, 2011 General Session

