53A-2-206.5.   Definitions.
As used in Sections 53A-2-207 through 53A-2-213:
(1)  "Early enrollment" means application prior to the third Friday in
February for admission for the next school year to a school that is not a
student's school of residence.
(2) (a)  "Early enrollment school capacity" or "maximum capacity" means the
total number of students who could be served in a school building if each of
the building's instructional stations were to have the enrollment specified in
Subsection (2)(b).
(b) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b)(ii):
(A)  for an elementary school, an instructional station shall have an
enrollment at least equal to the school district's average class size for the
corresponding grade; and
(B)  for a middle, junior, or senior high school, an instructional station
shall have an enrollment at least equal to the district's average class size
for similar classes.
(ii) (A)  A local school board shall determine the instructional station
capacity for laboratories, physical education facilities, shops, study halls,
self-contained special education classrooms, facilities jointly financed by
the school district and another community agency for joint use, and similar
rooms.
(B)  Capacity for self-contained special education classrooms shall be based
upon students per class as defined by State Board of Education and federal
special education standards.
(3) (a)  "Instructional station" means a classroom, laboratory, shop, study
hall, or physical education facility to which a local board of education could
reasonably assign a class, teacher, or program during a given class period.
(b)  More than one instructional station may be assigned to a classroom,
laboratory, shop, study hall, or physical education facility during a class
period.
(4)  "Late enrollment" means application:
(a)  after the third Friday in February for admission for the next school year
to a school that is not the student's school of residence; or
(b)  for admission for the current year to a school that is not the student's
school of residence.
(5) (a)  "Late enrollment school capacity" or "adjusted capacity" means the
total number of students who could be served in a school if each teacher were
to have the class size specified in Subsection (5)(b).
(b) (i)  An elementary school teacher shall have a class size at least equal
to the district's average class size for the corresponding grade.
(ii)  A middle, junior, or senior high school teacher shall have a class size
at least equal to the district's average class size for similar classes.
(6)  "Nonresident student" means a student who lives outside the boundaries of
the school attendance area.
(7)  "Open enrollment threshold" means:
(a)  for early enrollment, a projected school enrollment level that is the
greater of:
(i)  90% of the maximum capacity; or
(ii)  maximum capacity minus 40 students; and
(b)  for late enrollment, actual school enrollment that is the greater of:
(i)  90% of adjusted capacity; or
(ii)  adjusted capacity minus 40 students.
(8)  "Projected school enrollment" means the current year enrollment of a
school as of October 1, adjusted for projected growth for the next school
year.
(9)  "School attendance area" means an area established by a local school
board from which students are assigned to attend a certain school.
(10)  "School of residence" means the school to which a student is assigned to
attend based on the student's place of residence.
