53A-2-207.   Open enrollment options -- Procedures -- Processing fee --
Continuing enrollment.
(1)  Each local school board is responsible for providing educational services
consistent with Utah state law and rules of the State Board of Education for
each student who resides in the district and, as provided in this section
through Section 53A-2-213 and to the extent reasonably feasible, for any
student who resides in another district in the state and desires to attend a
school in the district.
(2) (a)  A school is open for enrollment of nonresident students if the
enrollment level is at or below the open enrollment threshold.
(b)  If a school's enrollment falls below the open enrollment threshold, the
local school board shall allow a nonresident student to enroll in the school.
(3)  A local school board may allow enrollment of nonresident students in a
school that is operating above the open enrollment threshold.
(4) (a)  A local school board shall adopt policies describing procedures for
nonresident students to follow in applying for entry into the district's
schools.
(b)  Those procedures shall provide, as a minimum, for:
(i)  distribution to interested parties of information about the school or
school district and how to apply for admission;
(ii)  use of standard application forms prescribed by the State Board of
Education;
(iii)  submission of applications from December 1 through the third Friday in
February by those seeking admission during the early enrollment period for the
following year;
(iv)  submission of applications by those seeking admission during the late
enrollment period;
(v)  written notification to the student's parent or legal guardian of
acceptance or rejection of an application:
(A)  within six weeks after receipt of the application by the district or by
March 31, whichever is later, for applications submitted during the early
enrollment period;
(B)  within two weeks after receipt of the application by the district or by
the Friday before the new school year begins, whichever is later, for
applications submitted during the late enrollment period for admission in the
next school year; and
(C)  within two weeks after receipt of the application by the district, for
applications submitted during the late enrollment period for admission in the
current year; and
(vi)  written notification to the resident school for intradistrict transfers
or the resident district for interdistrict transfers upon acceptance of a
nonresident student for enrollment.
(c) (i)  Notwithstanding the dates established in Subsection (4)(b) for
submitting applications and notifying parents of acceptance or rejection of an
application, a local school board may delay the dates if a local school board
is not able to make a reasonably accurate projection of the early enrollment
school capacity or late enrollment school capacity of a school due to:
(A)  school construction or remodeling;
(B)  drawing or revision of school boundaries; or
(C)  other circumstances beyond the control of the local school board.
(ii)  The delay may extend no later than four weeks beyond the date the local
school board is able to make a reasonably accurate projection of the early
enrollment school capacity or late enrollment school capacity of a school.
(5)  A school district may charge a one-time $5 processing fee, to be paid at
the time of application.
(6)  An enrolled nonresident student shall be permitted to remain enrolled in
a school, subject to the same rules and standards as resident students,
without renewed applications in subsequent years unless one of the following
occurs:
(a)  the student graduates;
(b)  the student is no longer a Utah resident;
(c)  the student is suspended or expelled from school; or
(d)  the district determines that enrollment within the school will exceed the
school's open enrollment threshold.
(7) (a)  Determination of which nonresident students will be excluded from
continued enrollment in a school during a subsequent year under Subsection
(6)(d) is based upon time in the school, with those most recently enrolled
being excluded first and the use of a lottery system when multiple nonresident
students have the same number of school days in the school.
(b)  Nonresident students who will not be permitted to continue their
enrollment shall be notified no later than March 15 of the current school
year.
(8)  The parent or guardian of a student enrolled in a school that is not the
student's school of residence may withdraw the student from that school for
enrollment in another public school by submitting notice of intent to enroll
the student in:
(a)  the district of residence; or
(b)  another nonresident district.
(9)  Unless provisions have previously been made for enrollment in another
school, a nonresident district releasing a student from enrollment shall
immediately notify the district of residence, which shall enroll the student
in the resident district and take such additional steps as may be necessary to
ensure compliance with laws governing school attendance.
(10) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (10)(c), a student who transfers
between schools, whether effective on the first day of the school year or
after the school year has begun, by exercising an open enrollment option under
this section may not transfer to a different school during the same school
year by exercising an open enrollment option under this section.
(b)  The restriction on transfers specified in Subsection (10)(a) does not
apply to a student transfer made for health or safety reasons.
(c)  A local school board may adopt a policy allowing a student to exercise an
open enrollment option more than once in a school year.
(11)  Notwithstanding Subsections (2) and (6)(d), a student who is enrolled in
a school that is not the student's school of residence, because school bus
service is not provided between the student's neighborhood and school of
residence for safety reasons:
(a)  shall be allowed to continue to attend the school until the student
finishes the highest grade level offered; and
(b)  shall be allowed to attend the middle school, junior high school, or high
school into which the school's students feed until the student graduates from
high school.
(12)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, a student shall be
allowed to enroll in any charter school or other public school in any
district, including a district where the student does not reside, if the
enrollment is necessary, as determined by the Division of Child and Family
Services, to comply with the provisions of 42 U.S.C. Section 675.
