53A-2-214.   Online students' participation in extracurricular activities.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Online education" means the use of information and communication technologies to deliver educational opportunities to a student in a location other than a school.

(b)  "Online student" means a student who:

(i)  participates in an online education program sponsored or supported by the State Board of Education, a school district, or charter school; and

(ii)  generates funding for the school district or school pursuant to Subsection 53A-17a-103(4) and rules of the State Board of Education.

(2)  An online student is eligible to participate in extracurricular activities at:

(a)  the school within whose attendance boundaries the student's custodial parent or legal guardian resides; or

(b)  the public school from which the student withdrew for the purpose of participating in an online education program.

(3)  A school other than a school described in Subsection (2)(a) or (b) may allow an online student to participate in extracurricular activities other than:

(a)  interschool competitions of athletic teams sponsored and supported by a public school; or

(b)  interschool contests or competitions for music, drama, or forensic groups or teams sponsored and supported by a public school.

(4)  An online student is eligible for extracurricular activities at a public school consistent with eligibility standards as applied to full-time students of the public school.

(5)  A school district or public school may not impose additional requirements on an online school student to participate in extracurricular activities that are not imposed on full-time students of the public school.

(6) (a)  The State Board of Education shall make rules establishing fees for an online school student's participation in extracurricular activities at school district schools.

(b)  The rules shall provide that:

(i)  online school students pay the same fees as other students to participate in extracurricular activities;

(ii)  online school students are eligible for fee waivers pursuant to Section 53A-12-103;

(iii)  for each online school student who participates in an extracurricular activity at a school district school, the online school shall pay a share of the school district's costs for the extracurricular activity; and

(iv)  an online school's share of the costs of an extracurricular activity shall reflect state and local tax revenues expended, except capital facilities expenditures, for an extracurricular activity in a school district or school divided by total student enrollment of the school district or school.

(c)  In determining an online school's share of the costs of an extracurricular activity under Subsections (6)(b)(iii) and (iv), the State Board of Education may establish uniform fees statewide based on average costs statewide or average costs within a sample of school districts.

(7)  When selection to participate in an extracurricular activity at a public school is made on a competitive basis, an online student is eligible to try out for and participate in the activity as provided in this section.



Amended by Chapter 371, 2011 General Session

