32A-2-103.   Operational restrictions.
(1) (a)  Liquor may not be sold from a state store except in a sealed package.
(b)  A sealed package may not be opened on the premises of a state store.
(2) (a)  An officer, agent, clerk, or employee of a state store may not
consume or allow to be consumed by any person an alcoholic beverage on the
premises of a state store.
(b)  Violation of this Subsection (2) is a class B misdemeanor.
(3)  Liquor may not be sold except at prices fixed by the commission.
(4)  Liquor may not be sold, delivered, or furnished to a:
(a)  minor;
(b)  person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;
(c)  known habitual drunkard; or
(d)  known interdicted person.
(5)  Sale or delivery of liquor may not be made on or from the premises of a
state store, nor may a state store be kept open for the sale of liquor:
(a)  on Sunday;
(b)  on a state or federal legal holiday; or
(c)  except on days and during hours as the commission may direct by rule or
order.
(6)  A state store shall display in a prominent place in the store a sign in
large letters stating: "Warning: Driving under the influence of alcohol or
drugs is a serious crime that is prosecuted aggressively in Utah."
(7) (a)  A minor may not be admitted into, or be on the premises of a state
store unless accompanied by a person who is:
(i)  21 years of age or older; and
(ii)  the minor's parent, legal guardian, or spouse.
(b) A state store employee that has reason to believe that a person who is on
the premises of a state store is under the age of 21 and is not accompanied by
a person described in Subsection (7)(a) may:
(i)  ask the suspected minor for proof of age;
(ii)  ask the person who accompanies the suspected minor for proof of age; and
(iii)  ask the suspected minor or the person who accompanies the suspected
minor for proof of parental, guardianship, or spousal relationship.
(c) A state store employee shall refuse to sell liquor to the suspected minor
and to the person who accompanies the suspected minor into the state store if
the suspected minor or person fails to provide information specified in
Subsection (7)(b).
(d) A state store employee shall require a suspected minor and the person who
accompanies the suspected minor into the state store to immediately leave the
premises of the state store if the suspected minor or person fails to provide
information specified in Subsection (7)(b).
