63C-10-102.   Governor's Rural Partnership Board -- Creation -- Membership
-- Vacancies -- Chairs -- Expenses.
(1)  There is created the Governor's Rural Partnership Board composed of 15
members as follows:
(a)  the governor or the governor's designee;
(b)  a rural member of the Utah Association of Counties' Board of Directors,
appointed by the association's board;
(c)  a rural member of the Utah League of Cities and Towns' Board of
Directors, appointed by the league's board;
(d)  the vice president of Utah State University's Extension Services or the
vice president's designee;
(e)  the president of Southern Utah University or the president's designee;
(f)  the chair of the Utah Rural Development Council;
(g)  a rural representative of agriculture;
(h)  a rural representative of the travel industry;
(i)  a representative of rural utilities;
(j)  a representative from the oil, gas, or mineral extraction industry; and
(k)  five rural members appointed by the governor, at least one of which shall
be a representative from a rural private business.
(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), board members identified in
Subsections (1)(b), (c), (g), (h), (i), (j), and (k) shall be appointed for
four-year terms.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment for members appointed under
Subsection (1)(k), adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of
these members are staggered so that approximately half of these five members
are appointed every two years.
(c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term in the same manner as the vacated
member was chosen.
(d)  Once initial board appointments are made pursuant to Subsection (1)(k),
recommendations for filling vacancies for any reason of those five board
positions shall be made to the governor from a nominating committee consisting
of:
(i)  three individuals selected by the Steering Committee of the Rural
Coordinating Committee; and
(ii)  three individuals selected by the Governor's Rural Partnership Board
from the Utah Rural Development Council membership.
(3) (a)  The governor or the governor's designee shall serve as cochair of the
board.
(b)  The chair of the Utah Rural Development Council shall serve as cochair of
the board.
(4)  The board shall meet at the call of the cochairs, but at least
semiannually.
(5) (a)  A majority of the members of the board constitute a quorum.
(b)  The action of a majority of a quorum constitutes the action of the board.
(6)  Members receive no compensation or benefits for their services on the
board, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of
the member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of
Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
