63C-10-201.   Rural Coordinating Committee -- Creation -- Membership -- Chair -- Vacancies -- Quorum -- Expenses.

(1)  There is created the Rural Coordinating Committee consisting of the following 13 members:

(a)  the chair of the Office of Rural Development;

(b)  the vice president for Utah State University Extension Services or the vice president's designee;

(c)  the director of the Utah Rural Development Council;

(d)  the director of the Utah Center for Rural Life;

(e)  the executive director of the Utah Association of Counties or the executive director's designee;

(f)  the executive director of the Utah League of Cities and Towns or the executive director's designee;

(g)  a director of a rural Association of Counties or the director's designee;

(h)  a representative from the Department of Natural Resources appointed by the department;

(i)  a representative from the Department of Agriculture and Food appointed by the department;

(j)  the State Planning Coordinator;

(k)  a representative from the Department of Workforce Services appointed by the department;

(l)  a member of the State Board of Education, appointed by the board; and

(m)  a member of the State Board of Regents, appointed by the board.

(2) (a)  The director of the Office of Rural Development shall serve as committee cochair.

(b)  The committee shall elect one of its other members to serve as cochair for a two-year term.

(3) (a)  A member who is not serving ex officio shall be appointed for a four-year term and may be reappointed to subsequent terms.

(b)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership of those appointed to four-year terms under Subsection (3)(a), the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(4)  The committee shall meet at the call of the chairs, but at least once a year.

(5) (a)  A majority of the members of the committee constitute a quorum.

(b)  The action of a majority of a quorum constitutes the action of the committee.

(6)  Committee members receive no compensation for their service on the committee.

