53B-6-105.5.   Technology Initiative Advisory Board -- Composition -- Duties.

(1)  There is created a Technology Initiative Advisory Board to assist and make recommendations to the State Board of Regents in its administration of the Engineering and Computer Science Initiative established under Section 53B-6-105.

(2) (a)  The advisory board shall consist of individuals appointed by the governor from business and industry who have expertise in the areas of engineering, computer science, and related technologies.

(b)  The advisory board shall select a chair and cochair.

(c)  The advisory board shall meet at the call of the chair.

(d)  The State Board of Regents, through the commissioner of higher education, shall provide staff support for the advisory board.

(3)  A member of an advisory board may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(4)  The advisory board shall:

(a)  make recommendations to the State Board of Regents on the allocation and distribution of money appropriated to fund:

(i)  the faculty incentive program established in Section 53B-6-105.9;

(ii)  equipment purchases required to improve the quality of instructional programs in engineering, computer science, and related technology; and

(iii)  the scholarship program established in Section 53B-6-105.7.

(b)  prepare a strategic plan that details actions required by the State Board of Regents to meet the intent of the Engineering and Technology Science Initiative;

(c)  review and assess engineering, computer science, and related technology programs currently being offered at higher education institutions and their impact on the economic prosperity of the state;

(d)  provide the State Board of Regents with an assessment and reporting plan that:

(i)  measures results against expectations under the initiative, including verification of the matching requirements for institutions of higher education to receive money under Section 53B-6-105.9; and

(ii)  includes an analysis of market demand for technical employment, program articulation among higher education institutions in engineering, computer science, and related technology, tracking of student placement, student admission to the initiative program by region, transfer rates, and retention in and graduation rates from the initiative program; and

(e)  make an annual report of its activities to the State Board of Regents.

(5)  The annual report of the Technology Initiative Advisory Board shall include the summary report of the institutional matches described in Section 53B-6-105.9.



Amended by Chapter 49, 2013 General Session

