61-2g-204.   Real Estate Appraiser Licensing and Certification Board.

(1) (a)  There is established a Real Estate Appraiser Licensing and Certification Board that consists of five regular members as follows:

(i)  one state-licensed or state-certified appraiser who may be either a residential or general licensee or certificate holder;

(ii)  one state-certified residential appraiser;

(iii)  one state-certified general appraiser;

(iv)  one member who is certified as either a state-certified residential appraiser or a state-certified general appraiser; and

(v)  one member of the general public.

(b)  A state-licensed or state-certified appraiser may be appointed as an alternate member of the board.

(c)  The governor shall appoint all members of the board with the consent of the Senate.

(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), as terms of current board members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term beginning on July 1.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately half of the board is appointed every two years.

(c)  Upon the expiration of a member's term, a member of the board shall continue to hold office until the appointment and qualification of the member's successor.

(d)  A person may not serve as a member of the board for more than two consecutive terms.

(3) (a)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(b)  The governor may remove a member for cause.

(4)  The public member of the board may not be licensed or certified under this chapter.

(5)  The board shall meet at least quarterly to conduct its business. The division shall give public notice of a board meeting.

(6)  The members of the board shall elect a chair annually from among the members to preside at board meetings.

(7)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(8) (a)  Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

(b)  If a quorum of members is unavailable for any meeting, the alternate member of the board, if any, shall serve as a regular member of the board for that meeting if with the presence of the alternate member a quorum is present at the meeting.

