4-7-3.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Agent" or "broker" means any person who, on behalf of a dealer, purchaser, or livestock market, as defined in Section 4-30-1, solicits or negotiates the consignment or purchase of any product of agriculture.

(2)  "Consignor" means any person who ships or delivers any product of agriculture to a dealer for storage, handling, or sale.

(3) (a)  "Dealer" means any person who:

(i)  receives any product of agriculture from any person for sale or storage on commission; and

(ii)  is entrusted with the possession, management, control, or disposal of any product of agriculture for the account of that person.

(b)  "Dealer" includes a livestock dealer.

(c)  "Dealer" includes a person who owns or leases a warehouse.

(4) (a)  "Immediate resale" means the resale of livestock within 60 days of purchase.

(b)  "Immediate resale" does not include the resale of livestock culled within 60 days that were purchased for feeding or replacement.

(5)  "Livestock" means cattle, swine, equines, sheep, camelidae, ratites, bison, and domesticated elk as defined in Section 4-39-102.

(6)  "Livestock dealer" means a person engaged in the business of purchasing livestock for immediate resale or interstate shipment for immediate resale.

(7)  "Producer" means any person who is primarily engaged in the business of raising any product of agriculture for profit.

(8)  "Product of agriculture" means any product useful to the human species which results from the application of the science and art of the production of plants and animals.

(9)  "Product of Agriculture Receipt" means a formal document issued by a dealer for any product of agriculture in accordance with Section 4-7-9.  The receipt is a fungible certificate of title and claim for the product of agriculture and may be used as proof of ownership for collateral.

(10)  "Warehouse" means every building, structure, yard, or other protected enclosure in which any product of agriculture is or may be stored.  It does not include retail stores, except those that buy directly from a producer.

