4-7-7.   Issuance of dealer, broker, and agent licenses -- Fees -- Deposit
of bond or trust agreement -- Renewal -- Refusal to issue or renew license.
(1)   The commissioner, if satisfied that the convenience and necessity of the
industry and the public will be served, shall issue a license to a dealer
within 30 days after:
(a)  receipt of a proper application and financial statement;
(b)  payment of a license fee determined by the department pursuant to
Subsection 4-2-2 (2); and
(c)  the posting of a corporate surety bond, an irrevocable letter of credit,
a trust fund agreement, or other security required by Section 4-7-8.
(2)  Upon proper application and payment of the license fee determined by the
department pursuant to Subsection 4-2-2(2), the commissioner shall issue a
license to conduct business as an agent or broker.
(3)  A license issued under this chapter:
(a)  entitles the applicant to conduct the business described in the
application through December 31 of the year in which the license is issued,
subject to suspension or revocation for cause; and
(b)  is renewable for a period of one year upon:
(i)  receipt of a proper renewal application; and
(ii)  payment of an annual license renewal fee determined by the department
pursuant to Subsection 4-2-2(2).
(4)  A license issued under this chapter shall at all times remain the
property of the state, and the licensee is entitled to its possession only for
the duration of the license.
(5)  The department shall refuse to issue or renew a license if the applicant:
(a)  cannot produce a financial statement with sufficient assets to justify
the amount of business the applicant contemplates, unless the application is
for a broker's or agent's license;
(b)  is in violation of this chapter or rules adopted under this chapter;
(c)  has made a false or misleading statement as to the health or physical
condition of livestock in connection with the buying, receiving, selling,
exchanging, soliciting or negotiating the sale of, or the weighing of
livestock;
(d)  has failed to keep records of purchases and sales or refused to grant
inspection of those records by authorized agents of the department;
(e)  has failed to comply with a lawful order of the department;
(f)  has been found by the department to have failed to pay, without
reasonable cause, obligations incurred in connection with the produce or
livestock transaction;
(g)  has been suspended by order of the Secretary of Agriculture of the United
States Department of Agriculture under provisions of the Packers and
Stockyards Act, 1921, 7 U.S.C. Sec. 181 et seq;
(h)  employs a person required to be licensed whose license cannot be renewed
or whose license is under suspension or revocation by the department or the
United States Department of Agriculture; or
(i)  has any unsatisfied civil judgments related to an activity for which
licensing is required by this chapter.
(6)  An applicant who has been refused a license or license renewal may not
apply again for one year following refusal unless the department determines
that the applicant is in compliance with this chapter.
