4-7-11.   Department authority -- Examination and investigation of
transactions -- Notice of agency action upon probable cause -- Settlement of
disputes -- Cease and desist order -- Enforcement -- Review.
(1)  For the purpose of enforcing this chapter the department may, upon its
own motion, or shall, upon the verified complaint of an interested consignor,
investigate, examine, or inspect any transaction involving:
(a)  the solicitation, receipt, sale, or attempted sale of  any product of
agriculture by a dealer or person assuming to act as a  dealer;
(b)  the failure to make a correct account of sales;
(c)  the intentional making of a false statement about market conditions or
the condition or quantity of any product of agriculture consigned;
(d)  the failure to remit payment in a timely manner to the consignor as
required by contract or by this chapter;
(e)  any other consignment transaction alleged to have resulted in damage to
the consignor; or
(f)  any dealer or agent with an unsatisfied judgment by a civil court related
to an activity for which licensing is required by this chapter.
(2) (a)  After investigation upon its own motion, if the department determines
that probable cause exists to believe that a dealer has engaged or is engaging
in acts that violate this chapter, it shall issue a notice of agency action.
(b) (i)  Upon the receipt of a verified complaint, the department shall
undertake to effect a settlement between the consignor and the dealer.
(ii)  If a settlement cannot be effected, the department shall treat the
verified complaint as a request for agency action.
(3) (a)  In a hearing upon a verified complaint, if the commissioner, or
hearing officer designated by the commissioner, determines by a preponderance
of the evidence that the person complained of has violated this chapter and
that the violation has resulted in damage to the complainant, the officer
shall:
(i)  prepare written findings of fact detailing the findings and fixing the
amount of damage suffered; and
(ii)  order the defendant to pay damages.
(b)  In a hearing initiated upon the department's own motion, if the
commissioner or hearing officer determines by a preponderance of the evidence
that the person complained of by the department has engaged in, or is engaging
in, acts that violate this chapter, the commissioner or officer shall prepare
written findings of fact and an order requiring the person to cease and desist
from the activity.
(4)  The department may petition any court having jurisdiction in the county
where the action complained of occurred to enforce its order.
(5)  Any dealer aggrieved by an order issued under this section may obtain
judicial review of the order.
(6) (a)  The department may not act upon a verified complaint submitted to the
department more than six months after the consignor allegedly suffered damage.
(b)  A livestock claim must be made in writing within 120 days from the date
of the transaction.
