48-1-37.   Rules for distribution.
In settling accounts between the partners after dissolution the following
rules shall be observed, subject to any agreement to the contrary:
(1)  The assets of the partnership are:
(a)  partnership property; and
(b)  contributions of the partners specified in Subsection (4).
(2)  The liabilities of the partnership shall rank in order of payment, as
follows:
(a)  those owing to creditors other than partners;
(b)  those owing to partners other than for capital and profits;
(c)  those owing to partners in respect of capital; and
(d)  those owing to partners in respect of profits.
(3)  The assets shall be applied in the order of their declaration in
Subsection (1) to the satisfaction of the liabilities.
(4)  Except as provided in Subsection 48-1-12(2), the partners shall
contribute as provided by Subsection 48-1-15(1) the amount necessary to
satisfy the liabilities; but if any, but not all, of the partners are
insolvent, or, not being subject to process, refuse to contribute, the other
partners shall contribute their share of the liabilities, and in the relative
proportions in which they share the profits the additional amount necessary to
pay the liabilities.
(5)  An assignee for the benefit of creditors, or any person appointed by the
court, shall have the right to enforce the contributions specified in
Subsection (4).
(6)  Any partner or his legal representative shall have the right to enforce
the contributions specified in Subsection (4) to the extent of the amount that
he has paid in excess of his share of the liability.
(7)  The individual property of a deceased partner shall be liable for the
contributions specified in Subsection (4).
(8)  When partnership property and the individual properties of the partners
are in the possession of a court for distribution, partnership creditors shall
have priority on partnership property and separate creditors on individual
property, saving the rights of lien or secured creditors as heretofore.
(9)  When a partner has become bankrupt or his estate is insolvent, the claims
against his separate property shall rank in the following order:
(a)  those owing to separate creditors;
(b)  those owing to partnership creditors; and
(c)  those owing to partners by way of contribution.
