61-2b-2.   Definitions.
(1)  As used in this chapter:
(a) (i)  "Appraisal" means an unbiased analysis, opinion, or conclusion
relating to the nature, quality, value, or utility of a specified interest in,
or aspect of, identified real estate or identified real property.
(ii)  An appraisal is classified by the nature of the assignment as a
valuation appraisal, an analysis assignment, or a review assignment in
accordance with the following definitions:
(A)  "Analysis assignment" means an unbiased analysis, opinion, or conclusion
that relates to the nature, quality, or utility of identified real estate or
identified real property.
(B)  "Review assignment" means an unbiased analysis, opinion, or conclusion
that forms an opinion as to the adequacy and appropriateness of a valuation
appraisal or an analysis assignment.
(C)  "Valuation appraisal" means an unbiased analysis, opinion, or conclusion
that estimates the value of an identified parcel of real estate or identified
real property at a particular point in time.
(b)  "Appraisal Foundation" means the Appraisal Foundation that was
incorporated as an Illinois not-for-profit corporation on November 30, 1987.
(c) (i)  "Appraisal report" means a communication, written or oral, of an
appraisal.
(ii)  An appraisal report is classified by the nature of the assignment as a
valuation report, analysis report, or review report in accordance with the
definitions provided in Subsection (1)(a)(ii).
(iii)  The testimony of a person relating to the person’s analyses,
conclusions, or opinions concerning identified real estate or identified real
property is considered to be an oral appraisal report.
(d)  "Appraisal Qualification Board" means the Appraisal Qualification Board
of the Appraisal Foundation.
(e)  "Board" means the Real Estate Appraiser Licensing and Certification Board
that is established in Section 61-2b-7.
(f)  "Certified appraisal report" means a written or oral appraisal report
that is certified by a state-certified general appraiser or state-certified
residential appraiser.
(g)  "Concurrence" means that the entities that are given a concurring role
jointly agree to an action.
(h) (i) (A)  "Consultation service" means an engagement to provide a real
estate valuation service analysis, opinion, conclusion, or other service that
does not fall within the definition of appraisal.
(B)  "Consultation service" does not mean a valuation appraisal, analysis
assignment, or review assignment.
(ii)  Regardless of the intention of the client or employer, if a person
prepares an unbiased analysis, opinion, or conclusion, the analysis, opinion,
or conclusion is considered to be an appraisal and not a consultation service.
(i)  "Contingent fee" means a fee or other form of compensation, payment of
which is dependent on or conditioned by:
(i)  the reporting of a predetermined analysis, opinion, or conclusion by the
person performing the analysis, opinion, or conclusion; or
(ii)  achieving a result specified by the person requesting the analysis,
opinion, or conclusion.
(j)  "Division" means the Division of Real Estate of the Department of
Commerce.
(k)  "Federally related transaction" means a real estate related transaction
that is required by federal law or by federal regulation to be supported by an
appraisal prepared by:
(i)  a state-licensed appraiser; or
(ii)  a state-certified appraiser.
(l)  "Real estate" means an identified parcel or tract of land including
improvements if any.
(m)  "Real estate appraisal activity" means the act or process of making an
appraisal of real estate or real property and preparing an appraisal report.
(n)  "Real estate related transaction" means:
(i)  the sale, lease, purchase, investment in, or exchange of real property or
an interest in real property, or the financing of such a transaction;
(ii)  the refinancing of real property or an interest in real property; or
(iii)  the use of real property or an interest in real property as security
for a loan or investment, including mortgage-backed securities.
(o)  "Real property" means one or more defined interests, benefits, or rights
inherent in the ownership of real estate.
(p)  "State-certified general appraiser" means a person who holds a current,
valid certification as a state-certified general appraiser issued under this
chapter.
(q)  "State-certified residential appraiser" means a person who holds a
current, valid certification as a state-certified residential real estate
appraiser issued under this chapter.
(r)  "State-licensed appraiser" means a person who holds a current, valid
license as a state-licensed appraiser issued under this chapter.
(s)  "Trainee" means an individual who:
(i)  does not hold an appraiser license or appraiser certification issued
under this chapter;
(ii)  works under the direct supervision of a state-certified appraiser to
earn experience for licensure; and
(iii)  is registered as a trainee under this chapter.
(t)  "Unbiased analysis, opinion, or conclusion" means an analysis, opinion,
or conclusion relating to the nature, quality, value, or utility of identified
real estate or identified real property that is prepared by a person who is
employed or retained to act, or would be perceived by third parties or the
public as acting, as a disinterested third party in rendering the analysis,
opinion, or conclusion.
(2) (a)  If a term not defined in this section is defined by rule, the term
shall have the meaning established by the division by rule made in accordance
with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(b)  If a term not defined in this section is not defined by rule, the term
shall have the meaning commonly accepted in the business community.
