61-2b-6.   Duties and powers of division.
(1)  The division has the powers and duties listed in this Subsection (1).
(a)  The division shall:
(i)  receive an application for licensing, certification, or registration;
(ii)  establish appropriate administrative procedures for the processing of an
application for licensure, certification, or registration;
(iii)  issue a license or certification to a qualified applicant pursuant to
this chapter; and
(iv)  register an individual who applies and qualifies for registration as a
trainee under this chapter.
(b) (i)  The division shall require an individual to register with the
division as a trainee before the individual acts in the capacity of a trainee
earning experience for licensure.
(ii)  Subject to Subsection (4), the board shall adopt rules in accordance
with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, for:
(A)  the trainee registration required by this Subsection (1)(b); and
(B)  renewal of the trainee registration required by this Subsection (1)(b).
(c)  The division shall hold public hearings under the direction of the board.
(d)  The division may:
(i)  solicit bids and enter into contracts with one or more educational
testing services or organizations for the preparation of a bank of questions
and answers; and
(ii)  administer or contract for the administration of licensing and
certification examinations as may be required to carry out the division's
responsibilities under this chapter.
(e)  The division shall provide administrative assistance to the board by
providing to the board the facilities, equipment, supplies, and personnel that
are required to enable the board to carry out the board's responsibilities
under this chapter.
(f)  The division shall assist the board in improving the quality of the
continuing education available to a person licensed, certified, or registered
under this chapter.
(g)  The division shall assist the board with respect to the proper
interpretation or explanation of the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice as required by Section 61-2b-27 when an interpretation or
explanation becomes necessary in the enforcement of this chapter.
(h)  The division shall establish fees in accordance with Section 63J-1-504:
(i)  for processing:
(A)  an application for licensing, certification, or registration; and
(B)  approval of an expert witness; and
(ii)  for any other function required or permitted by this chapter.
(i)  If a person pays a fee or costs to the division with a negotiable
instrument and the negotiable instrument is not honored for payment:
(i)  the transaction for which the payment is submitted is voidable by the
division;
(ii)  the division may reverse the transaction if payment of the applicable
fee or costs is not received in full; and
(iii)  the person's license, certification, or registration is automatically
suspended:
(A)  beginning the day on which the payment is due; and
(B)  ending the day on which payment is made in full.
(j)  The division may:
(i)  investigate a complaint against:
(A)  a person licensed, certified, or registered under this chapter; or
(B)  a person required to be licensed, certified, or registered under this
chapter;
(ii)  subpoena a witness;
(iii)  subpoena the production of a book, paper, document, record, contract,
or evidence;
(iv)  administer an oath; and
(v)  take testimony and receive evidence concerning a matter within the
division's jurisdiction.
(k)  The division may:
(i)  promote research and conduct studies relating to the profession of real
estate appraising; and
(ii)  sponsor real estate appraisal educational activities.
(l)  The division shall adopt, with the concurrence of the board, rules for
the administration of this chapter pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act, that are not inconsistent with this chapter or
the constitution and laws of this state or of the United States.
(m)  The division shall employ an appropriate staff to investigate allegations
that a person required to be licensed, certified, or registered under this
chapter fails to comply with this chapter.
(n)  The division may employ other professional, clerical, and technical staff
as may be necessary to properly administer the work of the division under this
chapter.
(o) (i)  Upon request, the division shall make available, either directly or
through a third party, a list of the names and addresses of the persons
licensed, registered, or certified by the division under this chapter.
(ii)  A person who requests a list under this Subsection (1)(o) shall pay the
costs incurred by the division to make the list available.
(2) (a)  The division shall approve an expert witness who is not otherwise
licensed or certified under this chapter to appear in an administrative or
judicial tax proceeding to provide evidence related to the valuation of real
property that is assessed by the State Tax Commission, if the:
(i)  approval is limited to a specific proceeding;
(ii)  approval is valid until the proceeding becomes final;
(iii)  applicant pays to the division an approval fee set by the division in
accordance with Section 63J-1-504;
(iv)  applicant provides the applicant's name, address, occupation, and
professional credentials; and
(v)  applicant provides a notarized statement that:
(A)  the applicant is competent to render an appraisal and to testify as an
expert witness in the proceeding; and
(B)  the appraisal and testimony to be offered shall be in accordance with the
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice adopted by the board.
(b)  Subsection (2)(a) applies to an administrative or judicial property tax
proceeding related to the valuation of real property that is assessed by the
State Tax Commission.
(3) (a)  If the conditions of Subsection (3)(b) are met, the division is
immune from any civil action or criminal prosecution for initiating or
assisting in a lawful investigation of an act of, or participating in a
disciplinary proceeding concerning:
(i)  a person required to be licensed, certified, or registered pursuant to
this chapter; or
(ii)  a person approved as an expert witness pursuant to this chapter.
(b)  This Subsection (3) applies if the division takes the action:
(i)  without malicious intent; and
(ii)  in the reasonable belief that the action is taken pursuant to the powers
and duties vested in the division under this chapter.
(4) (a)  An individual applying to register as a trainee under this chapter
shall:
(i)  submit a fingerprint card in a form acceptable to the division at the
time of applying for registration; and
(ii)  consent to a criminal background check by:
(A)  the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification; and
(B)  the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(b)  The division shall request the Department of Public Safety to complete a
Federal Bureau of Investigation criminal background check for an applicant
through a national criminal history system.
(c)  The applicant shall pay the cost of:
(i)  the fingerprinting required by this section; and
(ii)  the criminal background check required by this section.
(d) (i)  A registration as a trainee under this chapter is conditional pending
completion of the criminal background check required by this Subsection (4).
(ii)  A registration is immediately and automatically revoked if a criminal
background check discloses that the applicant fails to accurately disclose a
criminal history involving:
(A)  the appraisal industry;
(B)  fraud;
(C)  misrepresentation; or
(D)  deceit.
(iii)  If a criminal background check discloses that an applicant fails to
accurately disclose a criminal history other than one described in Subsection
(4)(d)(ii), the division:
(A)  shall review the application; and
(B)  in accordance with rules made by the division pursuant to Title 63G,
Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, may:
(I)  place one or more conditions on a registration;
(II)  place one or more restrictions on a registration;
(III)  revoke a registration; or
(IV)  refer the application to the board for a decision.
(iv)  An individual whose conditional registration is automatically revoked
under Subsection (4)(d)(ii) or whose registration is conditioned, restricted,
or revoked under Subsection (4)(d)(iii) may appeal the action in a hearing
conducted by the board:
(A)  after the action is taken; and
(B)  in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(v)  The board may delegate to the division or an administrative law judge the
authority to conduct a hearing described in Subsection (4)(d)(iv).
(vi)  Relief from an automatic revocation under Subsection (4)(d)(ii) may be
granted only if:
(A)  the criminal history upon which the division bases the revocation:
(I)  did not occur; or
(II)  is the criminal history of another person;
(B) (I)  the revocation is based on a failure to accurately disclose a
criminal history; and
(II)  the applicant has a reasonable good faith belief at the time of
application that there was no criminal history to be disclosed; or
(C)  the division fails to follow the prescribed procedure for the revocation.
(e)  If a registration is revoked or a revocation is upheld after a hearing
described in Subsection (4)(d)(iv), the individual may not apply for a new
registration for a period of 12 months after the day on which the registration
is revoked.
(f)  The board may delegate to the division the authority to make a decision
on whether relief from a revocation should be granted.
(g) Money paid by an applicant for the cost of the criminal background check
is nonlapsing.
