61-2b-7.   Real Estate Appraiser Licensing and Certification Board.
(1) (a)  There is established a Real Estate Appraiser Licensing and
Certification Board which shall consist of five regular members as follows:
(i)  one state-licensed or state-certified appraiser who may be either a
residential or general licensee or certificate holder;
(ii)  one state-certified residential appraiser;
(iii)  one state-certified general appraiser;
(iv)  one member who is certified as either a state-certified residential
appraiser or a state-certified general appraiser; and
(v)  one member of the general public.
(b)  A state-licensed or state-certified appraiser may be appointed as an
alternate member of the board.
(c)  The governor shall appoint all members of the board with the consent of
the Senate.
(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), as terms of current board
members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term beginning on July 1.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(c)  Upon the expiration of a member's term, a member of the board shall
continue to hold office until the appointment and qualification of the
member's successor.
(d)  A person may not serve as a member of the board for more than two
consecutive terms.
(3) (a)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the
replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(b)  The governor may remove a board member for cause.
(4)  The public member of the board may not be licensed or certified under
this chapter.
(5)  The board shall meet at least quarterly to conduct its business.  Public
notice shall be given for all board meetings.
(6)  The members of the board shall elect a chair annually from among the
members to preside at board meetings.
(7) (a)  A member who is not a government employee may not receive
compensation or benefits for the member's services, but may receive per diem
and expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at
the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(b)  A member may decline to receive per diem and expenses for the member's
service.
(8) (a)  Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(b)  If a quorum of members is unavailable for any meeting, the alternate
member of the board, if any, shall serve as a regular member of the board for
that meeting if with the presence of the alternate member a quorum is present
at the meeting.
