61-2b-8.   Duties of board.
(1) (a)  The board shall provide technical assistance to the division relating
to real estate appraisal standards and real estate appraiser qualifications.
(b)  The board has the powers and duties listed in this section.
(2)  The board shall:
(a)  determine the experience, education, and examination requirements
appropriate for a person licensed under this chapter;
(b)  determine the experience, education, and examination requirements
appropriate for a person certified under this chapter:
(i)  in compliance with the minimum requirements of Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989; and
(ii)  consistent with the intent of this chapter;
(c)  determine the appraisal related acts that may be performed by:
(i)  a  trainee on the basis of the trainee's education and experience;
(ii)  clerical staff; and
(iii)  a person who:
(A)  does not hold a license or certification; and
(B)  assists an appraiser licensed or certified under this chapter in
providing appraisal services or consultation services;
(d)  determine the procedures for a trainee to register with the division; and
(e)  develop one or more programs to upgrade and improve the experience,
education, and examinations as required under this chapter.
(3) (a)  The experience, education, and examination requirements established
by the board for a person licensed or certified under this chapter shall be
the minimum criteria established by the Appraiser Qualification Board of the
Appraisal Foundation, unless, after notice and a public hearing held in
accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the
board finds that the minimum criteria are not appropriate for a state-licensed
appraiser or a state-certified appraiser in this state.
(b)  If under Subsection (3)(a) the board makes a finding that the minimum
criteria are not appropriate, the board shall recommend appropriate criteria
to the Legislature.
(4)  The board shall:
(a)  determine the continuing education requirements appropriate for the
renewal of a license, certification, or registration issued under this
chapter;
(b)  develop one or more programs to upgrade and improve continuing education;
and
(c)  recommend to the division one or more available continuing education
courses that meet the requirements of this chapter.
(5) (a)  The board shall consider the proper interpretation or explanation of
the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice as required by
Section 61-2b-27 when:
(i)  an interpretation or explanation is necessary in the enforcement of this
chapter; and
(ii)  the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation has not issued
an interpretation or explanation.
(b)  If the conditions of Subsection (5)(a) are met, the board shall recommend
to the division the appropriate interpretation or explanation that the
division should adopt as a rule under this chapter.
(c)  The board may by rule made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act, and Section 61-2b-27 provide for an exemption
from a provision of the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice
for an activity engaged in on behalf of a governmental entity.
(6)  The board shall develop and establish or approve the examination
specifications and the minimum score required to pass an examination for
licensure or certification.
(7)  The board may review the:
(a)  bank of questions and answers that comprise the examination for a person
licensed and certified under this chapter;
(b)  procedure that is established for selecting individual questions from the
bank of questions for use in each scheduled examination; and
(c)  questions in the bank of questions and the related answers to determine
whether they meet the examination specifications established by the board.
(8) (a)  The board shall conduct an administrative hearing, not delegated by
the board to an administrative law judge, in connection with a disciplinary
proceeding under Sections 61-2b-30 and 61-2b-31 concerning:
(i)  a person required to be licensed, certified, or registered under this
chapter; and
(ii)  the person's failure to comply with this chapter and the Uniform
Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice as adopted under Section
61-2b-27.
(b)  The board shall issue in an administrative hearing a decision that
contains findings of fact and conclusions of law.
(c)  When a determination is made that a person required to be licensed,
certified, or registered under this chapter has violated this chapter, the
division shall implement disciplinary action determined by the board.
(9)  A member of the board is immune from a civil action or criminal
prosecution for a disciplinary proceeding concerning a person required to be
registered, licensed, certified, or approved as an expert under this chapter
if the action is taken without malicious intent and in the reasonable belief
that the action taken was taken pursuant to the powers and duties vested in a
member of the board under this chapter.
(10)  The board shall require and pass upon proof necessary to determine the
honesty, competency, integrity, and truthfulness of an applicant for:
(a)  original licensure, certification, or registration; and
(b)  renewal licensure or certification.
