61-2b-22.   Licensing, certification, registration, or expert witness
requirements for nonresidents -- Temporary license or certificate --
Revocation.
(1) An applicant for one of the following who is not a resident of this state
shall submit with the applicant's application an irrevocable consent that
service of process upon the applicant may be made by delivery of the process
to the director of the division if, in an action against the applicant in a
court of this state arising out of the applicant's activities governed by this
chapter in this state, the plaintiff cannot, in the exercise of due diligence,
obtain personal service upon the applicant:
(a)  approval as an expert witness; or
(b)  licensure, certification, or registration under this chapter.
(2)  A nonresident of this state who complies with Subsection (1) may obtain
approval as an expert witness, a license, a certification, or a registration
in this state by complying with the provisions of this chapter relating to
approval as an expert witness, licensure, certification, or registration.
(3)  A nonresident of this state who complies with Subsection (1) may obtain a
temporary permit for a license or certification to perform a contract relating
to the appraisal of real estate or real property in this state.  To qualify
for the issuance of a temporary permit for a license or certification, an
applicant must:
(a)  submit an application on a form approved by the division;
(b)  submit evidence that the applicant is licensed or certified in the state
in which the applicant primarily conducts business;
(c)  certify that no formal charges alleging violation of state appraisal
licensing or certification laws have been filed against the applicant by the
applicant's state of domicile; and
(d)  pay an application fee in an amount established by the division with the
concurrence of the board.
(4)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the division, with the concurrence of the board, shall make rules
establishing:
(a)  the duration of a temporary permit; and
(b)  procedures for renewal of a temporary permit.
(5)  A temporary permit issued under this section shall be immediately and
automatically revoked if the appraiser's license or certification is suspended
or revoked in the appraiser's state of domicile.
(6) A person whose temporary permit for a license or certification is revoked
under Subsection (5) is entitled to a postrevocation hearing to challenge the
revocation.  The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with Title 63G,
Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
