62A-15-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Director" means the director of the Division of Substance Abuse and
Mental Health.
(2)  "Division" means the Division of Substance Abuse and Mental Health
established in Section 62A-15-103.
(3)  "Local mental health authority" means a county legislative body.
(4)  "Local substance abuse authority" means a county legislative body.
(5) (a)  "Public funds" means federal monies received from the Department of
Human Services or the Department of Health, and state monies appropriated by
the Legislature to the Department of Human Services, the Department of Health,
a county governing body, or a local substance abuse authority, or a local
mental health authority for the purposes of providing substance abuse or
mental health programs or services.
(b)  "Public funds" includes those federal and state monies that have been
transferred by a local substance abuse authority or a local mental health
authority to a private provider under an annual or otherwise ongoing contract
to provide comprehensive substance abuse or mental health programs or services
for the local substance abuse authority or local mental health authority.
Those monies maintain the nature of "public funds" while in the possession of
the private entity that has an annual or otherwise ongoing contract with a
local substance abuse authority or a local mental health authority to provide
comprehensive substance abuse or mental health programs or services for the
local substance abuse authority or local mental health authority.
(c)  Public funds received for the provision of services pursuant to substance
abuse or mental health service plans may not be used for any other purpose
except those authorized in the contract between the local mental health or
substance abuse authority and provider for the provision of plan services.
(6)  "Severe mental disorder" means schizophrenia, major depression, bipolar
disorders, delusional disorders, psychotic disorders, and other mental
disorders as defined by the division.
