62A-15-301.   Commitment of minor to secure drug or alcohol facility or
program -- Procedures -- Review.
(1)  For purposes of this part:
(a)  "Approved treatment facility or program" means a public or private
secure, inpatient facility or program that is licensed or operated by the
department or by the Department of Health to provide drug or alcohol treatment
or rehabilitation.
(b)  "Drug or alcohol addiction" means that the person has a physical or
psychological dependence on drugs or alcohol in a manner not prescribed by a
physician.
(2)  The parent or legal guardian of a minor under the age of 18 years may
submit that child, without the child's consent, to an approved treatment
facility or program for treatment or rehabilitation of drug or alcohol
addiction, upon application to a facility or program, and after a careful
diagnostic inquiry is made by a neutral and detached fact finder, in
accordance with the requirements of this section.
(3)  The neutral fact finder who conducts the inquiry:
(a)  shall be either a physician, psychologist, marriage and family therapist,
psychiatric and mental health nurse specialist, or social worker licensed to
practice in this state, who is trained and practicing in the area of substance
abuse; and
(b)  may not profit, financially or otherwise, from the commitment of the
child and may not be employed by the proposed facility or program.
(4)  The review by a neutral fact finder may be conducted on the premises of
the proposed treatment facility or program.
(5)  The inquiry conducted by the neutral fact finder shall include a private
interview with the child, and an evaluation of the child's background and need
for treatment.
(6)  The child may be committed to the approved treatment facility or program
if it is determined by the neutral fact finder that:
(a)  the child is addicted to drugs or alcohol and because of that addiction
poses a serious risk of harm to himself or others;
(b)  the proposed treatment or rehabilitation is in the child's best interest;
and
(c)  there is no less restrictive alternative that would be equally as
effective, from a clinical standpoint, as the proposed treatment facility or
program.
(7)  Any approved treatment facility or program that receives a child under
this section shall conduct a periodic review, at intervals not to exceed 30
days, to determine whether the criteria described in Subsection (6) continue
to exist.
(8)  A minor committed under this section shall be released from the facility
or program upon the request of his parent or legal guardian.
(9)  Commitment of a minor under this section terminates when the minor
reaches the age of 18 years.
(10)  Nothing in this section requires a program or facility to accept any
person for treatment or rehabilitation.
(11)  The parent or legal guardian who requests commitment of a minor under
this section is responsible to pay any fee associated with the review required
by this section and any necessary charges for commitment, treatment, or
rehabilitation for a minor committed under this section.
(12)  The child shall be released from commitment unless the report of the
neutral fact finder is submitted to the juvenile court within 72 hours of
commitment and approved by the court.
