62A-15-605.5.   Admission of person in custody of Department of Corrections
to state hospital -- Retransfer of person to Department of Corrections.
(1)  The executive director of the Department of Corrections may request the
director to admit a person who is in the custody of the Department of
Corrections to the state hospital, if the clinical director within the
Department of Corrections finds that the inmate has mentally deteriorated to
the point that admission to the state hospital is necessary to ensure adequate
mental health treatment.  In determining whether that inmate should be placed
in the state hospital, the director of the division shall consider:
(a)  the mental health treatment needs of the inmate;
(b)  the treatment programs available at the state hospital; and
(c)  whether the inmate meets the requirements of Subsection 62A-15-610(2).
(2)  If the director denies the admission of an inmate as requested by the
clinical director within the Department of Corrections, the Board of Pardons
and Parole shall determine whether the inmate will be admitted to the state
hospital.  The Board of Pardons and Parole shall consider:
(a)  the mental health treatment needs of the inmate;
(b)  the treatment programs available at the state hospital; and
(c)  whether the inmate meets the requirements of Subsection 62A-15-610(2).
(3)  The state hospital shall receive any person in the custody of the
Department of Corrections when ordered by either the director or the Board of
Pardons and Parole, pursuant to Subsection (1) or (2).  Any person so
transferred to the state hospital shall remain in the custody of the
Department of Corrections, and the state hospital shall act solely as the
agent of the Department of Corrections.
(4)  Inmates transferred to the state hospital pursuant to this section shall
be transferred back to the Department of Corrections through negotiations
between the director and the director of the Department of Corrections.  If
agreement between the director and the director of the Department of
Corrections cannot be reached, the Board of Pardons and Parole shall have
final authority in determining whether a person will be transferred back to
the Department of Corrections.  In making that determination, that board shall
consider:
(a)  the mental health treatment needs of the inmate;
(b)  the treatment programs available at the state hospital;
(c)  whether the person continues to meet the requirements of Subsection
62A-15-610(2);
(d)  the ability of the state hospital to provide adequate treatment to the
person, as well as safety and security to the public; and
(e)  whether, in the opinion of the director, in consultation with the
clinical director of the state hospital, the person's treatment needs have
been met.
