62A-15-611.   Allocation of state hospital beds -- Formula.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Adult beds" means the total number of patient beds located in the adult general psychiatric unit and the geriatric unit at the state hospital, as determined by the superintendent of the state hospital.

(b)  "Mental health catchment area" means a county or group of counties governed by a local mental health authority.

(2) (a)  The division shall establish by rule a formula to separately allocate to local mental health authorities adult beds for persons who meet the requirements of Subsection 62A-15-610(2)(a).  Beginning on May 10, 2011, and ending on June 30, 2011, 152 beds shall be allocated to local mental health authorities under this section.

(b)  The number of beds shall be reviewed and adjusted as necessary:

(i)  on July 1, 2011, to restore the number of beds allocated to 212 beds as funding permits; and

(ii)  on July 1, 2011, and every three years after July 1, 2011, according to the state's population.

(c)  All population figures utilized shall reflect the most recent available population estimates from the Utah Population Estimates Committee.

(3)  The formula established under Subsection (2) shall provide for allocation of beds based on:

(a)  the percentage of the state's adult population located within a mental health catchment area; and

(b)  a differential to compensate for the additional demand for hospital beds in mental health catchment areas that are located in urban areas.

(4)  A local mental health authority may sell or loan its allocation of beds to another local mental health authority.

(5)  The division shall allocate adult beds at the state hospital to local mental health authorities for their use in accordance with the formula established under this section.  If a local mental health authority is unable to access a bed allocated to it under the formula established under Subsection (2), the division shall provide that local mental health authority with funding equal to the reasonable, average daily cost of an acute care bed purchased by the local mental health authority.

(6)  The board shall periodically review and make changes in the formula established under Subsection (2) as necessary to accurately reflect changes in population.

