62A-15-612.   Allocation of pediatric state hospital beds -- Formula.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Pediatric beds" means the total number of patient beds located in the children's unit and the youth units at the state hospital, as determined by the superintendent of the state hospital.

(b)  "Mental health catchment area" means a county or group of counties governed by a local mental health authority.

(2)  The board shall establish by rule a formula to separately allocate to local mental health authorities pediatric beds for persons who meet the requirements of Subsection  62A-15-610(2)(b).  On July 1, 1996, 72 pediatric beds shall be allocated to local mental health authorities under this section.  That number shall be reviewed and adjusted as necessary every three years according to the state's population of persons under 18 years of age.  All population figures utilized shall reflect the most recent available population estimates from the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget.

(3)  The formula established under Subsection (2) becomes effective on July 1, 1996, and shall provide for allocation of beds based on the percentage of the state's population of persons under the age of 18 located within a mental health catchment area.  Each community mental health center shall be allocated at least one bed.

(4)  A local mental health authority may sell or loan its allocation of beds to another local mental health authority.

(5)  The division shall allocate 72 pediatric beds at the state hospital to local mental health authorities for their use in accordance with the formula established under this section.  If a local mental health authority is unable to access a bed allocated to it under that formula, the division shall provide that local mental health authority with funding equal to the reasonable, average daily cost of an acute care bed purchased by the local mental health authority.

(6)  The board shall periodically review and make changes in the formula established under Subsection (2) as necessary to accurately reflect changes in the state's population.



Amended by Chapter 16, 2003 General Session

