62A-15-629.   Temporary commitment -- Requirements and procedures.

(1) (a)  An adult may be temporarily, involuntarily committed to a local mental health authority upon:

(i)  written application by a responsible person who has reason to know, stating a belief that the individual is likely to cause serious injury to self or others if not immediately restrained, and stating the personal knowledge of the individual's condition or circumstances which lead to that belief; and

(ii)  a certification by a licensed physician or designated examiner stating that the physician or designated examiner has examined the individual within a three-day period immediately preceding that certification, and that the physician or designated examiner is of the opinion that the individual has a mental illness and, because of the individual's mental illness, is likely to injure self or others if not immediately restrained.

(b)  Application and certification as described in Subsection (1)(a) authorizes any peace officer to take the individual into the custody of a local mental health authority and transport the individual to that authority's designated facility.

(2)  If a duly authorized peace officer observes a person involved in conduct that gives the officer probable cause to believe that the person has a mental illness, as defined in Section 62A-15-602, and because of that apparent mental illness and conduct, there is a substantial likelihood of serious harm to that person or others, pending proceedings for examination and certification under this part, the officer may take that person into protective custody.  The peace officer shall transport the person to be transported to the designated facility of the appropriate local mental health authority pursuant to this section, either on the basis of the peace officer's own observation or on the basis of a mental health officer's observation that has been reported to the peace officer by that mental health officer.  Immediately thereafter, the officer shall place the person in the custody of the local mental health authority and make application for  commitment of that person to the local mental health authority.  The application shall be on a prescribed form and shall include the following:

(a)  a statement by the officer that the officer believes, on the basis of personal observation or on the basis of a mental health officer's observation reported to the officer by the mental health officer, that the person is, as a result of a mental illness, a substantial and immediate danger to self or others;

(b)  the specific nature of the danger;

(c)  a summary of the observations upon which the statement of danger is based; and

(d)  a statement of facts which called the person to the attention of the officer.

(3)  A person committed under this section may be held for a maximum of 24 hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  At the expiration of that time period, the person shall be released unless application for involuntary commitment has been commenced pursuant to Section 62A-15-631.  If that application has been made, an order of detention may be entered under Subsection 62A-15-631(3).  If no order of detention is issued, the patient shall be released unless he has made voluntary application for admission.

(4)  Transportation of persons with a mental illness pursuant to Subsections (1) and (2) shall be conducted by the appropriate municipal, or city or town, law enforcement authority or, under the appropriate law enforcement's authority, by ambulance to the extent that Subsection (5) applies.  However, if the designated facility is outside of that authority's jurisdiction, the appropriate county sheriff shall transport the person or cause the person to be transported by ambulance to the extent that Subsection (5) applies.

(5)  Notwithstanding Subsections (2) and (4), a peace officer shall cause a person to be transported by ambulance if the person meets any of the criteria in Section 26-8a-305.  In addition, if the person requires physical medical attention, the peace officer shall direct that transportation be to an appropriate medical facility for treatment.

