62A-15-641.   Restrictions and limitations -- Civil rights and privileges.

(1)  Subject to the general rules of the division, and except to the extent that the director or his designee determines that it is necessary for the welfare of the patient to impose restrictions, every patient is entitled to:

(a)  communicate, by sealed mail or otherwise, with persons, including official agencies, inside or outside the facility;

(b)  receive visitors; and

(c)  exercise all civil rights, including the right to dispose of property, execute instruments, make purchases, enter contractual relationships, and vote, unless the patient has been adjudicated to be incompetent and has not been restored to legal capacity.

(2)  When any right of a patient is limited or denied, the nature, extent, and reason for that limitation or denial shall be entered in the patient's treatment record.  Any continuing denial or limitation shall be reviewed every 30 days and shall also be entered in that treatment record.  Notice of that continuing denial in excess of 30 days shall be sent to the division or to the appropriate local mental health authority.

(3)  Notwithstanding any limitations authorized under this section on the right of communication, each patient is entitled to communicate by sealed mail with the appropriate local mental health authority, the division, his attorney, and the court, if any, that ordered his commitment.  In no case may the patient be denied a visit with the legal counsel or clergy of the patient's choice.

(4)  Local mental health authorities shall provide reasonable means and arrangements for informing involuntary patients of their right to release as provided in this chapter, and for assisting them in making and presenting requests for release.

(5)  Mental health facilities shall post a statement, promulgated by the division, describing patient's rights under Utah law.

(6)  Notwithstanding Section 53B-17-303, any person committed under this chapter has the right to determine the final disposition of his body after death.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 8, 2002 Special Session 5

