62A-15-703.    Residential and inpatient settings -- Commitment proceeding
-- Child in physical custody of local mental health authority.
(1)  A child may receive services from a local mental health authority in an
inpatient or residential setting only after a commitment proceeding, for the
purpose of transferring physical custody, has been conducted in accordance
with the requirements of this section.
(2)  That commitment proceeding shall be initiated by a petition for
commitment, and shall be a careful, diagnostic inquiry, conducted by a neutral
and detached fact finder, pursuant to the procedures and requirements of this
section.  If the findings described in Subsection (4) exist, the proceeding
shall result in the transfer of physical custody to the appropriate local
mental health authority, and the child may be placed in an inpatient or
residential setting.
(3)  The neutral and detached fact finder who conducts the inquiry:
(a)  shall be a designated examiner, as defined in Subsection 62A-15-602(3);
and
(b)  may not profit, financially or otherwise, from the commitment or physical
placement of the child in that setting.
(4)  Upon determination by the fact finder that the following circumstances
clearly exist, he may order that the child be committed to the physical
custody of a local mental health authority:
(a)  the child has a mental illness, as defined in Subsection 62A-15-602(8);
(b)  the child demonstrates a risk of harm to himself or others;
(c)  the child is experiencing significant impairment in his ability to
perform socially;
(d)  the child will benefit from care and treatment by the local mental health
authority; and
(e)  there is no appropriate less-restrictive alternative.
(5) (a)  The commitment proceeding before the neutral and detached fact finder
shall be conducted in as informal manner as possible, and in a physical
setting that is not likely to have a harmful effect on the child.
(b)  The child, the child’s parent or legal guardian, the person who
submitted the petition for commitment, and a representative of the appropriate
local mental health authority shall all receive informal notice of the date
and time of the proceeding.  Those parties shall also be afforded an
opportunity to appear and to address the petition for commitment.
(c)  The neutral and detached fact finder may, in his discretion, receive the
testimony of any other person.
(d)  The fact finder may allow the child to waive his right to be present at
the commitment proceeding, for good cause shown.  If that right is waived, the
purpose of the waiver shall be made a matter of record at the proceeding.
(e)  At the time of the commitment proceeding, the appropriate local mental
health authority, its designee, or the psychiatrist who has been in charge of
the child’s care prior to the commitment proceeding, shall provide the
neutral and detached fact finder with the following information, as it relates
to the period of current admission:
(i)  the petition for commitment;
(ii)  the admission notes;
(iii)  the child’s diagnosis;
(iv)  physicians’ orders;
(v)  progress notes;
(vi)  nursing notes; and
(vii)  medication records.
(f)  The information described in Subsection (5)(e) shall also be provided to
the child’s parent or legal guardian upon written request.
(g) (i)  The neutral and detached fact finder’s decision of commitment shall
state the duration of the commitment.  Any commitment to the physical custody
of a local mental health authority may not exceed 180 days.  Prior to
expiration of the commitment, and if further commitment is sought, a hearing
shall be conducted in the same manner as the initial commitment proceeding, in
accordance with the requirements of this section.
(ii)  When a decision for commitment is made, the neutral and detached fact
finder shall inform the child and his parent or legal guardian of that
decision, and of the reasons for ordering commitment at the conclusion of the
hearing, and also in writing.
(iii)  The neutral and detached fact finder shall state in writing the basis
of his decision, with specific reference to each of the criteria described in
Subsection (4), as a matter of record.
(6)  Absent the procedures and findings required by this section, a child may
be temporarily committed to the physical custody of a local mental health
authority only in accordance with the emergency procedures described in
Subsection 62A-15-629(1) or (2).  A child temporarily committed in accordance
with those emergency procedures may be held for a maximum of 72 hours,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  At the expiration of that
time period, the child shall be released unless the procedures and findings
required by this section have been satisfied.
(7)  A local mental health authority shall have physical custody of each child
committed to it under this section.  The parent or legal guardian of a child
committed to the physical custody of a local mental health authority under
this section, retains legal custody of the child, unless legal custody has
been otherwise modified by a court of competent jurisdiction.  In cases when
the Division of Child and Family Services or the Division of Juvenile Justice
Services has legal custody of a child, that division shall retain legal
custody for purposes of this part.
(8)  The cost of caring for and maintaining a child in the physical custody of
a local mental health authority shall be assessed to and paid by the child’s
parents, according to their ability to pay.  For purposes of this section, the
Division of Child and Family Services or the Division of Juvenile Justice
Services shall be financially responsible, in addition to the child’s
parents, if the child is in the legal custody of either of those divisions at
the time the child is committed to the physical custody of a local mental
health authority under this section, unless Medicaid regulation or contract
provisions specify otherwise.  The Office of Recovery Services shall assist
those divisions in collecting the costs assessed pursuant to this section.
(9)  Whenever application is made for commitment of a minor to a local mental
health authority under any provision of this section by a person other than
the child’s parent or guardian, the local mental health authority or its
designee shall notify the child’s parent or guardian.  The parents shall be
provided sufficient time to prepare and appear at any scheduled proceeding.
(10) (a)  Each child committed pursuant to this section is entitled to an
appeal within 30 days after any order for commitment.  The appeal may be
brought on the child’s own petition, or that of his parent or legal
guardian, to the juvenile court in the district where the child resides or is
currently physically located.  With regard to a child in the custody of the
Division of Child and Family Services or the Division of Juvenile Justice
Services, the attorney general's office shall handle the appeal, otherwise the
appropriate county attorney's office is responsible for appeals brought
pursuant to this Subsection (10)(a).
(b)  Upon receipt of the petition for appeal, the court shall appoint a
designated examiner previously unrelated to the case, to conduct an
examination of the child in accordance with the criteria described in
Subsection (4), and file a written report with the court.  The court shall
then conduct an appeal hearing to determine whether the findings described in
Subsection (4) exist by clear and convincing evidence.
(c)  Prior to the time of the appeal hearing, the appropriate local mental
health authority, its designee, or the mental health professional who has been
in charge of the child’s care prior to commitment, shall provide the court
and the designated examiner for the appeal hearing with the following
information, as it relates to the period of current admission:
(i)  the original petition for commitment;
(ii)  admission notes;
(iii)  diagnosis;
(iv)  physicians' orders;
(v)  progress notes;
(vi)  nursing notes; and
(vii)  medication records.
(d)  Both the neutral and detached fact finder and the designated examiner
appointed for the appeal hearing shall be provided with an opportunity to
review the most current information described in Subsection (10)(c) prior to
the appeal hearing.
(e)  The child, his parent or legal guardian, the person who submitted the
original petition for commitment, and a representative of the appropriate
local mental health authority shall be notified by the court of the date and
time of the appeal hearing.  Those persons shall be afforded an opportunity to
appear at the hearing.  In reaching its decision, the court shall review the
record and findings of the neutral and detached fact finder, the report of the
designated examiner appointed pursuant to Subsection (10)(b), and may, in its
discretion, allow or require the testimony of the neutral and detached fact
finder, the designated examiner, the child, the child's parent or legal
guardian, the person who brought the initial petition for commitment, or any
other person whose testimony the court deems relevant.  The court may allow
the child to waive his right to appear at the appeal hearing, for good cause
shown.  If that waiver is granted, the purpose shall be made a part of the
court’s record.
(11)  Each local mental health authority has an affirmative duty to conduct
periodic evaluations of the mental health and treatment progress of every
child committed to its physical custody under this section, and to release any
child who has sufficiently improved so that the criteria justifying commitment
no longer exist.
(12) (a)  A local mental health authority or its designee, in conjunction with
the child's current treating mental health professional may release an
improved child to a less restrictive environment, as they determine
appropriate.  Whenever the local mental health authority or its designee, and
the child's current treating mental health professional, determine that the
conditions justifying commitment no longer exist, the child shall be
discharged and released to his parent or legal guardian.  With regard to a
child who is in the physical custody of the State Hospital, the treating
psychiatrist or clinical director of the State Hospital shall be the child's
current treating mental health professional.
(b)  A local mental health authority or its designee, in conjunction with the
child's current treating mental health professional, is authorized to issue a
written order for the immediate placement of a child not previously released
from an order of commitment into a more restrictive environment, if the local
authority or its designee and the child's current treating mental health
professional has reason to believe that the less restrictive environment in
which the child has been placed is exacerbating his mental illness, or
increasing the risk of harm to himself or others.
(c)  The written order described in Subsection (12)(b) shall include the
reasons for placement in a more restrictive environment and shall authorize
any peace officer to take the child into physical custody and transport him to
a facility designated by the appropriate local mental health authority in
conjunction with the child's current treating mental health professional.
Prior to admission to the more restrictive environment, copies of the order
shall be personally delivered to the child, his parent or legal guardian, the
administrator of the more restrictive environment, or his designee, and the
child's former treatment provider or facility.
(d)  If the child has been in a less restrictive environment for more than 30
days and is aggrieved by the change to a more restrictive environment, the
child or his representative may request a review within 30 days of the change,
by a neutral and detached fact finder as described in Subsection (3).  The
fact finder shall determine whether:
(i)  the less restrictive environment in which the child has been placed is
exacerbating his mental illness, or increasing the risk of harm to himself or
others; or
(ii)  the less restrictive environment in which the child has been placed is
not exacerbating his mental illness, or increasing the risk of harm to himself
or others, in which case the fact finder shall designate that the child remain
in the less restrictive environment.
(e)  Nothing in this section prevents a local mental health authority or its
designee, in conjunction with the child's current mental health professional,
from discharging a child from commitment or from placing a child in an
environment that is less restrictive than that designated by the neutral and
detached fact finder.
(13)  Each local mental health authority or its designee, in conjunction with
the child's current treating mental health professional shall discharge any
child who, in the opinion of that local authority, or its designee, and the
child's current treating mental health professional, no longer meets the
criteria specified in Subsection (4), except as provided by Section 78A-6-120.
The local authority and the mental health professional shall assure that any
further supportive services required to meet the child's needs upon release
will be provided.
(14)  Even though a child has been committed to the physical custody of a
local mental health authority pursuant to this section, the child is still
entitled to additional due process proceedings, in accordance with Section
62A-15-704, before any treatment which may affect a constitutionally protected
liberty or privacy interest is administered.  Those treatments include, but
are not limited to, antipsychotic medication, electroshock therapy, and
psychosurgery.
