62A-15-1002.   Declaration for mental health treatment.

(1)  An adult who is not incapable may make a declaration of preferences or instructions regarding his mental health treatment.  The declaration may include, but is not limited to, consent to or refusal of specified mental health treatment.

(2)  A declaration for mental health treatment shall designate a capable adult to act as attorney-in-fact to make decisions about mental health treatment for the declarant.  An alternative attorney-in-fact may also be designated to act as attorney-in-fact if the original designee is unable or unwilling to act at any time.  An attorney-in-fact who has accepted the appointment in writing may make decisions about mental health treatment on behalf of the declarant only when the declarant is incapable.  The decisions shall be consistent with any instructions or desires the declarant has expressed in the declaration.

(3)  A declaration is effective only if it is signed by the declarant and two capable adult witnesses.  The witnesses shall attest that the declarant is known to them, signed the declaration in their presence, appears to be of sound mind and is not under duress, fraud, or undue influence.  Persons specified in Subsection 62A-15-1003(6) may not act as witnesses.

(4)  A declaration becomes operative when it is delivered to the declarant's physician or other mental health treatment provider and remains valid until it expires or is revoked by the declarant.  The physician or provider is authorized to act in accordance with an operative declaration when the declarant has been found to be incapable.  The physician or provider shall continue to obtain the declarant's informed consent to all mental health treatment decisions if the declarant is capable of providing informed consent or refusal.

(5) (a)  An attorney-in-fact does not have authority to make mental health treatment decisions unless the declarant is incapable.

(b)  An attorney-in-fact is not, solely as a result of acting in that capacity, personally liable for the cost of treatment provided to the declarant.

(c)  Except to the extent that a right is limited by a declaration or by any federal law, an attorney-in-fact has the same right as the declarant to receive information regarding the proposed mental health treatment and to receive, review, and consent to disclosure of medical records relating to that treatment.  This right of access does not waive any evidentiary privilege.

(d)  In exercising authority under the declaration, the attorney-in-fact shall act consistently with the instructions and desires of the declarant, as expressed in the declaration.  If the declarant's desires are unknown, the attorney-in-fact shall act in what he, in good faith, believes to be the best interest of the declarant.

(e)  An attorney-in-fact is not subject to criminal prosecution, civil liability, or professional disciplinary action for any action taken in good faith pursuant to a declaration for mental health treatment.

(6) (a)  A declaration for mental health treatment remains effective for a period of three years or until revoked by the declarant.  If a declaration for mental health treatment has been invoked and is in effect at the expiration of three years after its execution, the declaration remains effective until the declarant is no longer incapable.

(b)  The authority of a named attorney-in-fact and any alternative attorney-in-fact continues in effect as long as the declaration appointing the attorney-in-fact is in effect or until the attorney-in-fact has withdrawn.

(7)  A person may not be required to execute or to refrain from executing a declaration as a criterion for insurance, as a condition for receiving mental or physical health services, or as a condition of discharge from a facility.

