75-2-205.   Decedent's nonprobate transfers to others.

Unless excluded under Section 75-2-208, the value of the augmented estate includes the value of the decedent's nonprobate transfers to others, not included under Section 75-2-204, of any of the types described in this section, in the amount provided respectively for each type of transfer:

(1)  Property owned or owned in substance by the decedent immediately before death that passed outside probate at the decedent's death.  Property included under this category consists of the property described in this Subsection (1).

(a) (i)  Property over which the decedent alone, immediately before death, held a presently exercisable general power of appointment.

(ii)  The amount included is the value of the property subject to the power, to the extent the property passed at the decedent's death, by exercise, release, lapse, in default, or otherwise, to or for the benefit of any person other than the decedent's estate or surviving spouse.

(b) (i)  The decedent's fractional interest in property held by the decedent in joint tenancy with the right of survivorship.

(ii)  The amount included is the value of the decedent's fractional interest, to the extent the fractional interest passed by right of survivorship at the decedent's death to a surviving joint tenant other than the decedent's surviving spouse.

(c) (i)  The decedent's ownership interest in property or accounts held in POD, TOD, or co-ownership registration with the right of survivorship.

(ii)  The amount included is the value of the decedent's ownership interest, to the extent the decedent's ownership interest passed at the decedent's death to or for the benefit of any person other than the decedent's estate or surviving spouse.

(d) (i)  Proceeds of insurance, including accidental death benefits, on the life of the decedent, if the decedent owned the insurance policy immediately before death or if and to the extent the decedent alone and immediately before death held a presently exercisable general power of appointment over the policy or its proceeds.

(ii)  The amount included:

(A)  is the value of the proceeds, to the extent they were payable at the decedent's death to or for the benefit of any person other than the decedent's estate or surviving spouse; and

(B)  may not exceed the greater of the cash surrender value of the policy immediately prior to the death of the decedent or the amount of premiums paid on the policy during the decedent's life.

(2)  Property transferred in any of the forms described in this Subsection (2) by the decedent during marriage:

(a) (i)  Any irrevocable transfer in which the decedent retained the right to the possession or enjoyment of, or to the income from, the property if and to the extent the decedent's right terminated at or continued beyond the decedent's death.

(ii)  An irrevocable transfer in trust which includes a restriction on transfer of the decedent's interest as settlor and beneficiary as described in Section 25-6-14.

(iii)  The amount included is the value of the fraction of the property to which the right or restriction related, to the extent the fraction of the property passed outside probate to or for the benefit of any person other than the decedent's estate or surviving spouse.

(b) (i)  Any transfer in which the decedent created a power over income or property, exercisable by the decedent alone or in conjunction with any other person, or exercisable by a nonadverse party, to or for the benefit of the decedent, creditors of the decedent, the decedent's estate, or creditors of the decedent's estate.

(ii)  The amount included with respect to a power over property is the value of the property subject to the power, and the amount included with respect to a power over income is the value of the property that produces or produced the income, to the extent the power in either case was exercisable at the decedent's death to or for the benefit of any person other than the decedent's surviving spouse or to the extent the property passed at the decedent's death, by exercise, release, lapse, in default, or otherwise, to or for the benefit of any person other than the decedent's estate or surviving spouse.

(iii)  If the power is a power over both income and property and Subsection (2)(b)(ii) produces different amounts, the amount included is the greater amount.

(3)  Property that passed during marriage and during the two-year period next preceding the decedent's death as a result of a transfer by the decedent if the transfer was of any of the types described in this Subsection (3).

(a) (i)  Any property that passed as a result of the termination of a right or interest in, or power over, property that would have been included in the augmented estate under Subsection (1)(a), (b), or (c), or under Subsection (2), if the right, interest, or power had not terminated until the decedent's death.

(ii)  The amount included is the value of the property that would have been included under Subsection (1)(a), (b), (c), or Subsection (2) if the property were valued at the time the right, interest, or power terminated, and is included only to the extent the property passed upon termination to or for the benefit of any person other than the decedent or the decedent's estate, spouse, or surviving spouse.

(iii) (A)  As used in this Subsection (3)(a), "termination," with respect to a right or interest in property, occurs when the right or interest terminated by the terms of the governing instrument or the decedent transferred or relinquished the right or interest, and, with respect to a power over property, occurs when the power terminated by exercise, release, lapse, default, or otherwise.

(B)  With respect to a power described in Subsection (1)(a), "termination" occurs when the power terminated by exercise or release, but not otherwise.

(b) (i)  Any transfer of or relating to an insurance policy on the life of the decedent if the proceeds would have been included in the augmented estate under Subsection (1)(d) had the transfer not occurred.

(ii)  The amount included:

(A)  is the value of the insurance proceeds to the extent the proceeds were payable at the decedent's death to or for the benefit of any person other than the decedent's estate or surviving spouse; and

(B)  may not exceed the greater of the cash surrender value of the policy immediately prior to the death of the decedent or the amount of premiums paid on the policy during the decedent's life.

(c) (i)  Any transfer of property, to the extent not otherwise included in the augmented estate, made to or for the benefit of a person other than the decedent's surviving spouse.

(ii)  The amount included is the value of the transferred property to the extent the aggregate transfers to any one donee in either of the two years exceeded $10,000.

