75-2-211.   Proceeding for elective share -- Time limit.
(1)  Except as provided in Subsection (2), the election shall be made by
filing in the court and mailing or delivering to the personal representative,
if any, a petition for the elective share within nine months after the date of
the decedent's death, or within six months after the probate of the decedent's
will, whichever limitation later expires.  The surviving spouse shall give
notice of the time and place set for hearing to persons interested in the
estate and to the distributees and recipients of portions of the augmented
estate whose interests will be adversely affected by the taking of the
elective share.  Except as provided in Subsection (2), the decedent's
nonprobate transfers to others are not included within the augmented estate
for the purpose of computing the elective-share, if the petition is filed more
than nine months after the decedent's death.
(2)  Within nine months after the decedent's death, the surviving spouse may
petition the court for an extension of time for making an election.  If,
within nine months after the decedent's death, the spouse gives notice of the
petition to all persons interested in the decedent's nonprobate transfers to
others, the court for cause shown by the surviving spouse may extend the time
for election.  If the court grants the spouse's petition for an extension, the
decedent's nonprobate transfers to others are not excluded from the augmented
estate for the purpose of computing the elective-share and supplemental
elective-share amounts, if the spouse makes an election by filing in the court
and mailing or delivering to the personal representative, if any, a petition
for the elective share within the time allowed by the extension.
(3)  The surviving spouse may withdraw his demand for an elective share at any
time before entry of a final determination by the court.
(4)  After notice and hearing, the court shall determine the elective-share
and supplemental elective-share amounts, and shall order its payment from the
assets of the augmented estate or by contribution as appears appropriate under
Sections 75-2-209 and 75-2-210.  If it appears that a fund or property
included in the augmented estate has not come into the possession of the
personal representative, or has been distributed by the personal
representative, the court nevertheless shall fix the liability of any person
who has any interest in the fund or property or who has possession thereof,
whether as trustee or otherwise.  The proceeding may be maintained against
fewer than all persons against whom relief could be sought, but no person is
subject to contribution in any greater amount than he would have been under
Sections 75-2-209 and 75-2-210 had relief been secured against all persons
subject to contribution.
(5)  An order or judgment of the court may be enforced as necessary in suit
for contribution or payment in other courts of Utah or other jurisdictions.
