75-2-214.   Protection of payors and other third parties.
(1)  Although under Section 75-2-205 a payment, item of property, or other
benefit is included in the decedent's nonprobate transfers to others, a payor
or other third party is not liable for having made a payment or transferred an
item of property or other benefit to a beneficiary designated in a governing
instrument, or for having taken any other action in good faith reliance on the
validity of a governing instrument, upon request and satisfactory proof of the
decedent's death, before the payor or other third party received written
notice from the surviving spouse or spouse's representative of an intention to
file a petition for the elective share or that a petition for the elective
share has been filed.  A payor or other third party is liable for payments
made or other actions taken after the payor or other third party received
written notice of an intention to file a petition for the elective share or
that a petition for the elective share has been filed.
(2)  A written notice of intention to file a petition for the elective share
or that a petition for the elective share has been filed shall be mailed to
the payor's or other third party's main office or home by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, or served upon the payor or other
third party in the same manner as a summons in a civil action.  Upon receipt
of written notice of intention to file a petition for the elective share or
that a petition for the elective share has been filed, a payor or other third
party may pay any amount owed or transfer or deposit any item of property held
by it to or with the court having jurisdiction of the probate proceedings
relating to the decedent's estate, or if no proceedings have been commenced,
to or with the court having jurisdiction of probate proceedings relating to
decedents' estates located in the county of the decedent's residence.  The
court shall hold the funds or item of property, and, upon its determination
under Subsection 75-2-211(4), shall order disbursement in accordance with the
determination.  If no petition is filed in the court within the specified time
under Subsection 75-2-211(1) or, if filed, the demand for an elective share is
withdrawn under Subsection 75-2-211(3), the court shall order disbursement to
the designated beneficiary.  Payments or transfers to the court or deposits
made into court discharge the payor or other third party from all claims for
amounts so paid or the value of property so transferred or deposited.
(3)  Upon petition to the probate court by the beneficiary designated in a
governing instrument, the court may order that all or part of the property be
paid to the beneficiary in an amount and subject to conditions consistent with
this part.
