75-2-603.   Definitions -- Antilapse -- Deceased devisee -- Class gifts --
Substitute gifts.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Alternative devise" means a devise that is expressly created by the will
and, under the terms of the will, can take effect instead of another devise on
the happening of one or more events, including survival of the testator or
failure to survive the testator, whether an event is expressed in condition-
precedent, condition-subsequent, or any other form.  A residuary clause
constitutes an alternative devise with respect to a nonresiduary devise only
if the will specifically provides that, upon lapse or failure, the
nonresiduary devise, or nonresiduary devises in general, pass under the
residuary clause.
(b)  "Class member" includes an individual who fails to survive the testator
but who would have taken under a devise in the form of a class gift had he
survived the testator.
(c)  "Devise" includes an alternative devise, a devise in the form of a class
gift, and an exercise of a power of appointment.
(d)  "Devisee" includes:
(i)  a class member if the devise is in the form of a class gift;
(ii)  an individual or class member who was deceased at the time the testator
executed his will as well as an individual or class member who was then living
but who failed to survive the testator; and
(iii)  an appointee under a power of appointment exercised by the testator's
will.
(e)  "Stepchild" means a child of the surviving, deceased, or former spouse of
the testator or of the donor of a power of appointment, and not of the
testator or donor.
(f)  "Surviving devisee" or "surviving descendant" means a devisee or a
descendant who neither predeceased the testator nor is considered to have
predeceased the testator under Section 75-2-702.
(g)  "Testator" includes the donee of a power of appointment if the power is
exercised in the testator's will.
(2)  If a devisee fails to survive the testator and is a grandparent, a
descendant of a grandparent, or a stepchild of either the testator or the
donor of a power of appointment exercised by the testator's will, the
following apply:
(a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(d), if the devise is not in the form
of a class gift and the deceased devisee leaves surviving descendants, a
substitute gift is created in the devisee's surviving descendants.  They take
per capita at each generation the property to which the devisee would have
been entitled had the devisee survived the testator.
(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(d), if the devise is in the form of
a class gift, other than a devise to "issue," "descendants," "heirs of the
body," "heirs," "next-of-kin," "relatives," or "family," or a class described
by language of similar import, a substitute gift is created in the surviving
descendant's of any deceased devisee.  The property to which the devisees
would have been entitled had all of them survived the testator passes to the
surviving devisees and the surviving descendants of the deceased devisees.
Each surviving devisee takes the share to which he would have been entitled
had the deceased devisees survived the testator.  Each deceased devisee's
surviving descendants who are substituted for the deceased devisee take per
capita at each generation the share to which the deceased devisee would have
been entitled had the deceased devisee survived the testator.  For the
purposes of this Subsection (2)(b), "deceased devisee" means a class member
who failed to survive the testator and left one or more surviving descendants.
(c)  For the purposes of Section 75-2-601, words of survivorship, such as in a
devise to an individual "if he survives me," or in a devise to "my surviving
children," are, in the absence of clear and convincing evidence, a sufficient
indication of an intent contrary to the application of this section.
(d)  If the will creates an alternative devise with respect to a devise for
which a substitute gift is created by Subsection (2)(a) or (b), the substitute
gift is superseded by the alternative devise only if an expressly designated
devisee of the alternative devise is entitled to take under the will.
(e)  Unless the language creating a power of appointment expressly excludes
the substitution of the descendants of an appointee for the appointee, a
surviving descendant of a deceased appointee of a power of appointment can be
substituted for the appointee under this section, whether or not the
descendant is an object of the power.
