75-2-1001.   Honorary trusts -- Trusts for pets.
(1)  Subject to Subsection (3), if a trust is for a specific lawful
noncharitable purpose or for a lawful noncharitable purpose to be selected by
the trustee and there is no definite or definitely ascertainable beneficiary
designated, the trust may be performed by the trustee for 21 years but no
longer whether or not the terms of the trust contemplate a longer duration.
(2)  Subject to this Subsection (2) and Subsection (3), a trust for the care
of a designated domestic or pet animal is valid.  The trust terminates when no
living animal is covered by the trust.  A governing instrument shall be
liberally construed to bring the transfer within this subsection, to presume
against the merely precatory or honorary nature of the disposition, and to
carry out the general intent of the transferor.  Extrinsic evidence is
admissible in determining the transferor's intent.
(3)  In addition to the provisions of Subsection (1) or (2), a trust covered
by either of those subsections is subject to the following provisions:
(a)  Except as expressly provided otherwise in the trust instrument, no
portion of the principal or income may be converted to the use of the trustee
or to any use other than for the trust's purposes or for the benefit of a
covered animal.
(b)  Upon termination, the trustee shall transfer the unexpended trust
property in the following order:
(i)  as directed in the trust instrument;
(ii)  if the trust was created in a nonresiduary clause in the transferor's
will or in a codicil to the transferor's will, under the residuary clause in
the transferor's will; and
(iii)  if no taker is produced by the application of Subsection (3)(b)(i) or
(ii), to the transferor's heirs under Section 75-2-711.
(c)  For the purposes of Section 75-2-707, the residuary clause is treated as
creating a future interest under the terms of a trust.
(d)  The intended use of the principal or income can be enforced by an
individual designated for that purpose in the trust instrument or, if none, by
an individual appointed by a court upon application to it by an individual.
(e)  Except as ordered by the court or required by the trust instrument, no
filing, report, registration, periodic accounting, separate maintenance of
funds, appointment, or fee is required by reason of the existence of the
fiduciary relationship of the trustee.
(f)  A court may reduce the amount of the property transferred, if it
determines that that amount substantially exceeds the amount required for the
intended use.  The amount of the reduction, if any, passes as unexpended trust
property under Subsection (3)(b).
(g)  If no trustee is designated or no designated trustee is willing or able
to serve, a court shall name a trustee.  A court may order the transfer of the
property to another trustee, if required to assure that the intended use is
carried out and if no successor trustee is designated in the trust  instrument
or if no designated successor trustee agrees to serve or is able to serve.  A
court may also make such other orders and determinations as shall be advisable
to carry out the intent of the transferor and the purpose of this section.
