9-7-101.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Division" means the State Library Division.

(2)  "Library board" means the library board of directors appointed locally as authorized by Section 9-7-402 or 9-7-502 and which exercises general policy authority for library services within a city or county of the state, regardless of the title by which it is known locally.

(3) (a)  "Pass-through funding" means funds appropriated by the Legislature to a state agency that are intended to be passed through the state agency to:

(i)  local governments;

(ii)  other government agencies;

(iii)  private organizations, including not-for-profits; or

(iv)  persons in the form of a loan or grant.

(b)  The funding may be:

(i)  general funds, federal funds, dedicated credits, or any combination of funding sources; and

(ii)  ongoing or one-time.

(4)  "Physical format" means a transportable medium in which analog or digital information is published, such as print, microform, magnetic disk, or optical disk.

(5)  "Policy" means the public library online access policy adopted by a library board to meet the requirements of Section 9-7-215.

(6)  "Political subdivision" means a county, city, town, school district, public transit district, redevelopment agency, or special improvement or taxing district.

(7)  "State agency" means the state, an office, department, agency, authority, commission, board, institution, hospital, college, university, or other instrumentality of the state.

(8) (a)  "State publication" means a book, compilation, directory, document, contract or grant report, hearing memorandum, journal, law, legislative bill, magazine, map, monograph, order, ordinance, pamphlet, periodical, proceeding, public memorandum, resolution, register, rule, report, statute, audiovisual material, electronic publication, micrographic form and tape or disc recording regardless of format or method of reproduction, issued or published by a state agency or political subdivision for distribution.

(b)  "State publication" does not include correspondence, internal confidential publications, office memoranda, university press publications, or publications of the state historical society.



Amended by Chapter 111, 2010 General Session

