20A-1-203.   Calling and purpose of special elections -- Two-thirds vote
limitations.
(1)  Statewide and local special elections may be held for any purpose
authorized by law.
(2) (a)  Statewide special elections shall be conducted using the procedure
for regular general elections.
(b)  Except as otherwise provided in this title, local special elections shall
be conducted using the procedures for regular municipal elections.
(3)  The governor may call a statewide special election by issuing an
executive order that designates:
(a)  the date for the statewide special election; and
(b)  the purpose for the statewide special election.
(4)  The Legislature may call a statewide special election by passing a joint
or concurrent resolution that designates:
(a)  the date for the statewide special election; and
(b)  the purpose for the statewide special election.
(5) (a)  The legislative body of a local political subdivision may call a
local special election only for:
(i)  a vote on a bond or debt issue;
(ii)  a vote on a voted leeway or levy program authorized by Section
53A-16-110, 53A-17a-133, or 53A-17a-134;
(iii) an initiative authorized by Chapter 7, Part 5, Local Initiatives -
Procedure;
(iv)  a referendum authorized by Chapter 7, Part 6, Local Referenda -
Procedures;
(v)  if required or authorized by federal law, a vote to determine whether or
not Utah's legal boundaries should be changed;
(vi)  a vote authorized or required by Title 59, Chapter 12, Sales and Use Tax
Act;
(vii)  a vote to elect members to school district boards for a new school
district and a remaining school district, as defined in Section 53A-2-117,
following the creation of a new school district under Section 53A-2-118.1; or
(viii)  an election of town officers of a newly incorporated town under
Subsection 10-2-125(9).
(b)  The legislative body of a local political subdivision may call a local
special election by adopting an ordinance or resolution that designates:
(i)  the date for the local special election; and
(ii)  the purpose for the local special election.
(c)  A local political subdivision may not call a local special election
unless the ordinance or resolution calling a local special election under
Subsection (5)(b) is adopted by a two-thirds majority of all members of the
legislative body, if the local special election is for:
(i)  a vote on a bond or debt issue as described in Subsection (5)(a)(i);
(ii)  a vote on a voted leeway or levy program as described in Subsection
(5)(a)(ii); or
(iii)  a vote authorized or required for a sales tax issue as described in
Subsection (5)(a)(vi).
