20A-1-509.2.   Procedure for filling vacancy in county or district with
fewer than 15 attorneys.
(1)  When a vacancy occurs in the office of county or district attorney in a
county or district having fewer than 15 attorneys who are licensed, active
members in good standing with the Utah State Bar and registered voters, the
vacancy shall be filled as provided in this section.
(2)  The county clerk shall send a letter to each attorney residing in the
county or district who is a licensed, active member in good standing with the
Utah State Bar and a registered voter that:
(a)  informs the attorney of the vacancy;
(b)  invites the attorney to apply for the vacancy; and
(c)  informs the attorney that if the attorney has not responded within 10
calendar days from the date that the letter was mailed, his candidacy to fill
the vacancy will not be considered.
(3) (a) (i)  If, after 10 calendar days from the date the letter was mailed,
more than three attorneys who are licensed, active members in good standing
with the Utah State Bar and registered voters in the county or district have
applied for the vacancy, the county clerk shall, except as provided in
Subsection (3)(a)(ii), submit the applications to the county central committee
of the same political party of the prior officeholder.
(ii)  In multicounty prosecution districts, the clerk shall submit the
applications to the county central committee of each county within the
prosecution district.
(b)  The central committee shall nominate three of the applicants and forward
their names to the county legislative body within 20 days after the date the
county clerk submitted the applicants' names.
(c)  The county legislative body shall appoint one of the nominees to fill the
vacant position.
(d)  If the central committee of the political party fails to submit at least
three names to the county legislative body within 20 days after the date the
county clerk submitted the applicants' names, the county legislative body
shall appoint one of the applicants to fill the vacant position.
(e)  If the county legislative body fails to appoint a person to fill the
vacancy within 120 days after the vacancy occurs, the county clerk shall mail
to the governor:
(i)  a letter informing him that the county legislative body has failed to
appoint a person to fill the vacancy; and
(ii) (A)  the list of nominees, if any, submitted by the central committee of
the political party; or
(B)  if the party central committee has not submitted a list of at least three
nominees within the required time, the names of the persons who submitted
applications for the vacant position to the county clerk.
(f)  The governor shall appoint a person to fill the vacancy from the list
within 30 days after receipt of the letter.
(4) (a)  If, after 10 calendar days from the date the letter was mailed, three
or fewer attorneys who are licensed, active members in good standing with the
Utah State Bar and registered voters in the county or district have applied
for the vacancy, the county legislative body may:
(i)  appoint one of them to be county or district attorney; or
(ii)  solicit additional applicants and appoint a county or district attorney
as provided in Subsection (4)(b).
(b) (i)  If three or fewer attorneys who are licensed members in good standing
of the Utah State Bar and registered voters in the county or district submit
applications, the county legislative body may publicly solicit and accept
additional applications for the position from licensed, active members in good
standing of the Utah State Bar who are not residents of the county or
prosecution district.
(ii)  The county legislative body shall consider the applications submitted by
the attorneys who are residents of and registered voters in the county or
prosecution district and the applications submitted by the attorneys who are
not residents of the county or prosecution district and shall appoint one of
the applicants to be county attorney or district attorney.
(c)  If the legislative body fails to appoint a person to fill the vacancy
within 120 days after the vacancy occurs, the county clerk shall:
(i)  notify the governor that the legislative body has failed to fill the
vacancy within the required time period; and
(ii)  provide the governor with a list of all the applicants.
(d)  The governor shall appoint a person to fill the vacancy within 30 days
after he receives the notification.
(5)  The person appointed to fill the vacancy shall serve for the unexpired
term of the person who created the vacancy.
