48-2e-702.   Transfer of transferable interest.

(1)  A transfer, in whole or in part, of a transferable interest:

(a)  is permissible;

(b)  does not by itself cause the person's dissociation or a dissolution and winding up of the limited partnership's activities and affairs; and

(c)  subject to Section 48-2e-704, does not entitle the transferee to:

(i)  participate in the management or conduct of the limited partnership's activities or affairs; or

(ii)  except as otherwise provided in Subsection (3), have access to required information, records, or other information concerning the limited partnership's activities and affairs.

(2)  A transferee has the right to receive, in accordance with the transfer, distributions to which the transferor would otherwise be entitled.

(3)  In a dissolution and winding up of a limited partnership, a transferee is entitled to an account of the limited partnership's transactions only from the date of dissolution.

(4)  A transferable interest may be evidenced by a certificate of the interest issued by a limited partnership in a record, and, subject to this section, the interest represented by the certificate may be transferred by a transfer of the certificate.

(5)  A limited partnership need not give effect to a transferee's rights under this section until the limited partnership knows or has notice of the transfer.

(6)  A transfer of a transferable interest in violation of a restriction on transfer contained in the partnership agreement is ineffective as to a person having knowledge or notice of the restriction at the time of transfer.

(7)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsections 48-2e-601(2)(d)(ii) and 48-2e-603(4)(b), if a general or limited partner transfers a transferable interest, the transferor retains the rights of a general or limited partner other than the transferable interest transferred and retains all the duties and obligations of a general or limited partner.

(8)  If a general or limited partner transfers a transferable interest to a person that becomes a general or limited partner with respect to the transferred interest, the transferee is liable for the transferor's obligations under Sections 48-2e-502 and 48-2e-505 known to the transferee when the transferee becomes a partner.



Enacted by Chapter 412, 2013 General Session

