48-2e-813.   Disposition of assets in winding up -- When contributions required.

(1)  In winding up its activities and affairs, a limited partnership shall apply its assets, including the contributions required by this section, to discharge the limited partnership's obligations to creditors, including partners that are creditors.

(2)  After a limited partnership complies with Subsection (1), any surplus must be distributed in the following order, subject to any charging order in effect under Section 48-2e-703:

(a)  to each person owning a transferable interest that reflects contributions made and not previously returned, an amount equal to the value of the unreturned contributions; and

(b)  among partners in proportion to their respective rights to share in distributions immediately before the dissolution of the limited partnership, except to the extent necessary to comply with any transfer effective under Section 48-2e-702.

(3)  If a limited partnership's assets are insufficient to satisfy all of its obligations under Subsection (1), with respect to each unsatisfied obligation incurred when the limited partnership was not a limited liability limited partnership, the following rules apply:

(a)  Each person that was a general partner when the obligation was incurred and that has not been released from the obligation under Section 48-2e-607 shall contribute to the limited partnership for the purpose of enabling the limited partnership to satisfy the obligation.  The contribution due from each of those persons is in proportion to the right to receive distributions in the capacity of general partner in effect for each of those persons when the obligation was incurred.

(b)  If a person does not contribute the full amount required under Subsection (3)(a) with respect to an unsatisfied obligation of the limited partnership, the other persons required to contribute by Subsection (3)(a) on account of the obligation shall contribute the additional amount necessary to discharge the obligation.  The additional contribution due from each of those other persons is in proportion to the right to receive distributions in the capacity of general partner in effect for each of those other persons when the obligation was incurred.

(c)  If a person does not make the additional contribution required by Subsection (3)(b), further additional contributions are determined and due in the same manner as provided in that subsection.

(d)  A person that makes an additional contribution under Subsection (3)(b) or (3)(c) may recover from any person whose failure to contribute under Subsection (3)(a) or (3)(b) necessitated the additional contribution.  A person may not recover under this subsection more than the amount additionally contributed.  A person's liability under this subsection may not exceed the amount the person failed to contribute.

(4)  If a limited partnership does not have sufficient surplus to comply with Subsection (2)(a), any surplus must be distributed among the owners of transferable interests in proportion to the value of the respective unreturned contributions.

(5)  All distributions made under Subsections (2) and (4) must be paid in money.



Enacted by Chapter 412, 2013 General Session

