75-6-311.   Terms, conditions, and forms for registration.
(1)  A registering entity offering to accept registrations in beneficiary form
may establish the terms and conditions under which it will receive requests
for:
(a)  registrations in beneficiary form; and
(b)  implementation of registrations in beneficiary form, including requests
for cancellation of previously registered TOD beneficiary designations and
requests for reregistration to effect a change of beneficiary.  The terms and
conditions so established may provide for proving death, avoiding or resolving
any problems concerning fractional shares, designating primary and contingent
beneficiaries, and substituting a named beneficiary's descendants to take the
place of the named beneficiary in the event of the beneficiary's death.
Substitution may be indicated by appending to the name of the primary
beneficiary the letters LDPS, standing for "lineal descendants per stirpes."
This designation substitutes a deceased beneficiary's descendants who survive
the owner for a beneficiary who fails to survive, the descendants to be
identified and to share in accordance with the law of the beneficiary's
domicile at the owner's death governing inheritance by descendants of an
intestate.  Other forms of identifying beneficiaries who are to take on one or
more contingencies, and rules for providing proofs and assurances needed to
satisfy reasonable concerns by registering entities regarding conditions and
identities relevant to accurate implementation of registrations in beneficiary
form, may be contained in a registering entity's terms and conditions.
(2)  The following are illustrations of registrations in beneficiary form
which a registering entity may authorize:
(a)  Sole owner-sole beneficiary: John S Brown TOD (or POD) John S Brown Jr.
(b)  Multiple owners-sole beneficiary: John S Brown Mary B Brown JT TEN TOD
John S Brown Jr.
(c)  Multiple owners-primary and secondary (substituted) beneficiaries: John S
Brown Mary B Brown JT TEN TOD John S Brown Jr SUB BENE Peter Q Brown or John S
Brown Mary B Brown JT TEN TOD John S Brown Jr LDPS.
