63M-1-402.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Business entity" means an entity, sole proprietorship, or individual:

(a)  including a claimant, estate, or trust; and

(b)  under which or by whom business is conducted or transacted.

(2)  "Claimant" means a resident or nonresident person that has:

(a)  Utah taxable income as defined in Section 59-7-101; or

(b)  state taxable income under Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 1, Determination and Reporting of Tax Liability and Information.

(3)  "County applicant" means the governing authority of a county that meets the requirements for designation as an enterprise zone under Section 63M-1-404.

(4)  "Estate" means a nonresident estate or a resident estate that has state taxable income under Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 2, Trusts and Estates.

(5)  "Municipal applicant" means the governing authority of a city or town that meets the requirements for designation as an enterprise zone under Section 63M-1-404.

(6)  "New full-time employee position" means a position that has been newly created and then filled by an employee working at least 30 hours per week:

(a)   for a period of not less than six consecutive months; and

(b)  where the period ends in the tax year for which the credit is claimed.

(7)  "Nonrefundable tax credit" or "tax credit" means a tax credit that a business entity may:

(a)  claim:

(i)  as provided by statute; and

(ii)  in an amount that does not exceed the business entity's tax liability for a taxable year under:

(A)  Title 59, Chapter 7, Corporate Franchise and Income Taxes; or

(B)  Title 59, Chapter 10, Individual Income Tax Act; and

(b)  carry forward or carry back:

(i)  if allowed by statute; and

(ii)  to the extent that the amount of the tax credit exceeds the business entity's tax liability for a taxable year under:

(A)  Title 59, Chapter 7, Corporate Franchise and Income Taxes; or

(B)  Title 59, Chapter 10, Individual Income Tax Act.

(8)  "Tax incentives" or "tax benefits" means the nonrefundable tax credits described in Section 63M-1-413.

(9)  "Trust" means a nonresident trust or a resident trust that has state taxable income under Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 2, Trusts and Estates.

