63M-1-604.   Members -- Appointment -- Terms -- Qualifications -- Vacancies -- Chair and vice chair -- Executive secretary -- Executive committee -- Quorum -- Expenses.

(1)  The council comprises the following nonvoting members or their designees:

(a)  the adviser;

(b)  the executive director of the Department of Natural Resources;

(c)  the executive director of the Department of Heritage and Arts;

(d)  the executive director of the Department of Health;

(e)  the executive director of the Department of Environmental Quality;

(f)  the commissioner of agriculture and food;

(g)  the commissioner of higher education;

(h)  the state planning coordinator; and

(i)  the executive director of the Department of Transportation.

(2)  The governor may appoint other voting members, not to exceed 12.

(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current council members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that approximately half of the council is appointed every two years.

(4)  The governor shall consider all institutions of higher education in the state in the appointment of council members.

(5)  The voting members of the council shall be experienced or knowledgeable in the application of science and technology to business, industry, or public problems and have demonstrated their interest in and ability to contribute to the accomplishment of the purposes of this part.

(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(7) (a)  Each year the council shall select from its membership a chair and a vice chair.

(b)  The chair and vice chair shall hold office for one year or until a successor is appointed and qualified.

(8)  The adviser serves as executive secretary of the council.

(9)  An executive committee shall be established consisting of the chair, vice chair, and the adviser.

(10) (a)  In order to conduct business matters of the council at regularly convened meetings, a quorum consisting of a simple majority of the total voting membership of the council is required.

(b)  All matters of business affecting public policy require not less than a simple majority of affirmative votes of the total membership.

(11)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 212, 2012 General Session

