63M-1-704.   Administration -- Grants.
(1)  The Governor's Office of Economic Development shall administer this part.
(2) (a)  The office may award Centers of Excellence grants to the various
colleges, universities, and licensees in the state for the purposes of this
part.
(b)  The governor's Office of Economic Development shall develop a process to
determine whether a college or university that receives a grant under this
part must return the grant proceeds or a portion of the grant proceeds if the
technology that is developed with the grant proceeds is licensed to a licensee
that:
(i)  does not maintain a manufacturing or service location in the state from
which the licensee or a sublicensee exploits the technology; or
(ii)  initially maintains a manufacturing or service location in the state
from which the licensee or a sublicensee exploits the technology, but within
five years after issuance of the license the licensee or sublicensee transfers
the manufacturing or service location for the technology to a location out of
the state.
(c)  A repayment by a college or university of grant proceeds or a portion of
the grant proceeds shall come only from the proceeds of the license
established between the licensee and the college or university.
(d) (i)  A licensee that receives a grant under this part shall return the
grant proceeds or a portion of the grant proceeds to the office if the
licensee:
(A)  does not maintain a manufacturing or service location in the state from
which the licensee exploits the technology; or
(B)  initially maintains a manufacturing or service location in the state from
which the licensee exploits the technology, but within five years after
issuance of the grant the licensee transfers the manufacturing or service
location for the technology to an out of state location.
(ii)  A repayment by a licensee that receives a grant shall come only from the
proceeds of the license to that licensee.
(iii)  A repayment by a licensee shall be prorated based only on the number of
full years the licensee operated in the state from the date of the awarded
grant.
(3) (a)  Funding allocations shall be made by the office with the advice of
the State Advisory Council for Science and Technology and the board.
(b)  Each proposal shall receive the best available outside review.
(4) (a)  In considering each proposal, the office shall weigh technical merit,
the level of matching funds from private and federal sources, and the
potential for job creation and economic development.
(b)  Proposals or consortia that combine and coordinate related research at
two or more colleges and universities shall be encouraged.
(5)  The State Advisory Council on Science and Technology shall review the
activities and progress of grant recipients on a regular basis and assist the
office in preparing an annual report on the accomplishments and direction of
the Centers of Excellence Program.
