63M-1-1102.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Composting" means the controlled decay of landscape waste or sewage sludge and organic industrial waste, or a mixture of these, by the action of bacteria, fungi, molds, and other organisms.

(2)  "Postconsumer waste material" means any product generated by a business or consumer that has served its intended end use, and that has been separated from solid waste for the purposes of collection, recycling, and disposition and that does not include secondary waste material.

(3) (a)  "Recovered materials" means waste materials and by-products that have been recovered or diverted from solid waste.

(b)  "Recovered materials" does not include those materials and by-products generated from, and commonly reused within, an original manufacturing process.

(4) (a)  "Recycling" means the diversion of materials from the solid waste stream and the beneficial use of the materials and includes a series of activities by which materials that would become or otherwise remain waste are diverted from the waste stream for collection, separation, and processing, and are used as raw materials or feedstocks in lieu of or in addition to virgin materials in the manufacture of goods sold or distributed in commerce or the reuse of the materials as substitutes for goods made from virgin materials.

(b)  "Recycling" does not include burning municipal solid waste for energy recovery.

(5)  "Recycling market development zone" or "zone" means an area designated by the office as meeting the requirements of this part.

(6) (a)  "Secondary waste material" means industrial by-products that go to disposal facilities and waste generated after completion of a manufacturing process.

(b)  "Secondary waste material" does not include internally generated scrap commonly returned to industrial or manufacturing processes, such as home scrap and mill broke.

(7)  "State tax incentives," "tax incentives," or "tax benefits" means the nonrefundable tax credits available under Sections 59-7-608 and 59-10-1007.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 382, 2008 General Session

