63M-1-1205.   Board members -- Meetings -- Expenses.
(1) (a)  The board shall consist of five members.
(b)  Of the five members:
(i)  one shall be the state treasurer;
(ii)  one shall be the director or the director's designee; and
(iii)  three shall be appointed by the governor and confirmed by the Senate.
(c)  The three members appointed by the governor shall serve four-year
staggered terms with the initial terms of the first three members to be four
years for one member, three years for one member, and two years for one
member.
(2)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership of the board for any reason, the
vacancy shall be:
(a)  filled in the same manner as the appointment of the original member; and
(b)  for the unexpired term of the board member being replaced.
(3)  Appointed members of the board may not serve more than two full
consecutive terms except where the governor determines that an additional term
is in the best interest of the state.
(4)  Three members of the board constitute a quorum for conducting business
and exercising board power, provided that a minimum of three affirmative votes
is required for board action and at least one of the affirmative votes is cast
by either the director or the director's designee or the state treasurer.
(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(6)  Members of the board shall be selected on the basis of demonstrated
expertise and competence in:
(a)  the supervision of investment managers;
(b)  the fiduciary management of investment funds; or
(c)  the management and administration of tax credit allocation programs.
(7)  The board and its members are considered to be a governmental entity with
all of the rights, privileges, and immunities of a governmental entity of the
state, including all of the rights and benefits conferred under Title 63G,
Chapter 7, Governmental Immunity Act of Utah.
(8)  Meetings of the board, except to the extent necessary to protect the
information identified in Subsection 63M-1-1224(3), are subject to Title 52,
Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.
