63M-1-1803.   Motion Picture Incentive Fund created -- Cash rebate
incentives -- Refundable tax credit incentives.
(1) (a)  There is created within the General Fund a restricted account known
as the Motion Picture Incentive Fund, which shall be used to provide cash
rebate incentives for within-the-state production of television series, made-
for-television movies, and motion pictures, including feature films and
independent films.
(b)  All interest generated from investment of money in the fund shall be
deposited in the fund.
(c)  The fund shall consist of an annual appropriation by the Legislature.
(d)  The Division of Finance shall make payments from the account as required
under this section.
(2) (a)  A motion picture company seeking disbursement of an incentive allowed
under an agreement with the office shall follow the procedures and
requirements of this Subsection (2).
(b) (i)  The motion picture company shall provide the office with a report
identifying and documenting the dollars left in the state by the motion
picture company for its state-approved production, including any related tax
returns by the motion picture company, payroll company, or loan-out
corporation under Subsection (2)(c).
(ii)  An independent certified public accountant shall:
(A)  prepare the report on behalf of the motion picture company; and
(B)  attest to the accuracy and validity of the report, including the amount
of dollars left in the state.
(c)  The motion picture company, payroll company, or loan-out corporation
shall provide the office with a document that expressly directs and authorizes
the State Tax Commission to disclose the entity's tax returns and other
information concerning the entity that would otherwise be subject to
confidentiality under Section 59-1-403 or Section 6103, Internal Revenue Code,
to the office.
(d)  The office shall submit the document described in Subsection (2)(c) to
the State Tax Commission.
(e)  Upon receipt of the document described in Subsection (2)(c), the State
Tax Commission shall provide the office with the information requested by the
office that the motion picture company, payroll company, or loan-out
corporation directed or authorized the State Tax Commission to provide to the
office in the document described in Subsection (2)(c).
(f)  Subject to Subsection (3), the office shall:
(i)  review the report from the motion picture company described in Subsection
(2)(b) and verify that it was prepared by an independent certified public
accountant; and
(ii)  based upon the certified public accountant's attestation under
Subsection (2)(b), determine the amount of the incentive that the motion
picture company is entitled to under its agreement with the office.
(g)  Subject to Subsection (3), if the incentive is in the form of a cash
rebate, the office shall submit to the Division of Finance:
(i)  a request for payment of the cash rebate incentive to the motion picture
company;
(ii)  the name and address of the payee; and
(iii)  any other information requested by the Division of Finance.
(h)  Upon receipt of a request for payment of a cash rebate incentive under
Subsection (2)(g), the Division of Finance shall:
(i)  transfer from the General Fund to the restricted account the amount
contained in the request for payment of a cash rebate incentive after reducing
the amount transferred by any unencumbered balances in the restricted account;
and
(ii)  notwithstanding Subsections 51-5-3(23)(b) and 63J-1-104(4)(c), after
receiving a request for payment of a cash rebate incentive and making the
transfer required by Subsection (2)(h)(i), pay the incentive from the
restricted account.
(i)  If the incentive is in the form of a refundable tax credit under Section
59-7-614.5 or 59-10-1108, the office shall:
(i)  issue a tax credit certificate to the motion picture company; and
(ii)  provide a duplicate copy of the tax credit certificate to the State Tax
Commission.
(j)  A motion picture company may not claim a motion picture tax credit under
Section 59-7-614.5 or 59-10-1108 unless the motion picture company has
received a tax credit certificate for the claim issued by the office under
Subsection (2)(i)(i).
(k)  A motion picture company may claim a motion picture tax credit on its tax
return for the amount listed on the tax credit certificate issued by the
office.
(l)  A motion picture company that claims a tax credit under Subsection (2)(k)
shall retain the tax credit certificate in accordance with Subsection
63M-1-1804(5)(d).
(3) (a)  Subject to Subsection (3)(b), the office may issue up to:
(i) (A)  $7,793,700 in tax credit certificates under this part in fiscal year
2009-10; and
(B)  $7,793,700 in tax credit certificates under this part in fiscal year
2010-11; and
(ii)  $2,206,300 in motion picture cash rebates under this part in a fiscal
year.
(b)  If the total amount of tax credit certificates the office issues in a
fiscal year is less than the amount of tax credit certificates the office may
issue in that fiscal year under Subsection (3)(a)(i)(A) or (B), the office may
issue the remaining amount of tax credit certificates in a fiscal year after
the fiscal year for which there is a remaining amount of tax credit
certificates.
(c)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this part or Section 59-7-614.5 or
59-10-1108, beginning on July 1, 2011, the office may not issue a tax credit
certificate unless:
(i)  the Legislature expressly provides funding in the office's budget for the
office to issue the tax credit certificate; or
(ii)  there is a remaining amount of tax credit that the office may issue in
accordance with Subsection (3)(b).
