63M-1-2304.   Grants for rural broadband deployment.
(1) (a)  A provider that wishes to deploy broadband service in a rural area
may file an application for a grant with the office.
(b)  An application shall:
(i)  be accompanied by an affidavit executed by the provider under oath; and
(ii)  provide information prescribed in rules adopted by the director.
(2)  The director shall:
(a)  provide reasonable public notice of an application;
(b)  allow public comment on the application for a reasonable period of time;
(c)  allow any other provider a reasonable opportunity to file an application
to provide broadband service in all or part of the rural area specified in the
application filed under Subsection (1); and
(d)  make rules concerning the method of providing public notice, the time
period for public comment, and the manner of filing a competing application.
(3) (a)  The office shall review all applications submitted in accordance with
Subsections (1) and (2) to provide broadband service in a rural area.
(b)  In reviewing any application, the office may obtain information from the
provider or others and conduct its own analysis of any issue relevant to the
application, including economic development.
(4)  After review of all applications for any rural area in accordance with
Subsection (3), the director may approve an application and enter into a
written agreement with a provider to provide a grant from the fund if the
director, with the advice of the board, is satisfied that the provider's
application establishes that:
(a)  the provider has the financial, managerial, and technical ability to
deploy broadband service in the rural area in accordance with the application;
(b)  the territory in which the provider proposes to deploy broadband service
is a rural area;
(c)  the cost of deployment of broadband service in the rural area is
reasonable;
(d)  the initial terms and conditions on which broadband service will be made
available to potential subscribers in the rural area are reasonable;
(e)  the provider has a viable business plan to continue providing broadband
service to all or some subscribers within the rural area;
(f)  if a competitive application was filed for the rural area, the provider's
application is the most advantageous application to potential subscribers or
the state; and
(g)  the application otherwise meets the requirements of this part and any
rules adopted by the director concerning broadband service deployment.
(5) (a)  The director may, with the advice of the board, require the provider
to make adjustments to the application or agree to reasonable conditions
consistent with the purposes of this part before approving the application.
(b)  Any adjustments and conditions required by the director shall be included
in the written agreement entered into with the provider.
(6)  The amount of any grant provided from the fund shall be no greater than
the lesser of 1/2 of:
(a)  the actual cost of deployment of broadband service in the rural area as
established by verified accounts filed with the office after completion of
deployment; or
(b)  the projected amount established during the application process by the
director and board for the deployment of broadband service in the rural area
as provided in the verified application.
(7)  Upon completion of deployment of broadband service by a provider in
accordance with the terms of an agreement as provided in Subsection (4), the
director shall pay the amount of the grant agreed upon consistent with
Subsection (6) to the provider from the fund.
(8)  In making any determination required under this section, the director,
the office, and the board:
(a)  may not discriminate against any accepted technology for provision of
broadband service other than for reasons of cost or the terms and conditions
upon which the provider proposes to provide broadband service to potential
subscribers; and
(b)  may consult with the Division of Public Utilities created in Section
13-1-2.
