63M-1-2403.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Business entity" means a person that enters into an agreement with the
office to initiate a new commercial project in Utah that will qualify the
person to receive a tax credit under Section 59-7-614.2 or 59-10-1107.
(2)  "Development zone" means an economic development zone created under
Section 63M-1-2404.
(3)  "High paying jobs" means the annual wages of employment positions in a
business entity that compare favorably against the average wage of a community
in which the employment positions will exist.
(4) (a)  "New commercial project" means an economic development opportunity
that involves new or expanded industrial, manufacturing, distribution, or
business services in Utah.
(b)  "New commercial project" does not include retail business.
(5)  "New incremental jobs" means employment positions that are:
(a)  not shifted from one jurisdiction in the state to another jurisdiction in
the state; and
(b)  created in addition to the baseline count of employment positions that
existed within the business entity before the new commercial project.
(6)  "New state revenues" means:
(a)  incremental new state sales and use tax revenues that a business entity
pays under Title 59, Chapter 12, Sales and Use Tax Act, as a result of a new
commercial project in a development zone;
(b)  incremental new state tax revenues, if any, that a business entity pays
as a result of a new commercial project in a development zone under:
(i)  Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 1, Determination and Reporting of Tax
Liability and Information;
(ii)  Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 2, Trusts and Estates;
(iii)  Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 4, Withholding of Tax;
(iv)  Title 59, Chapter 7, Corporate Franchise and Income Taxes; or
(v)  a combination of Subsections (6)(b)(i) through (iv);
(c)  incremental new state tax revenues paid as individual income taxes under
Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 1, Determination and Reporting of Tax Liability and
Information, by employees of the new commercial project as evidenced by
payroll records that indicate the amount of employee income taxes withheld and
transmitted to the State Tax Commission by the business entity; or
(d)  a combination of Subsections (6)(a) through (c).
(7)  "Office" means the Governor's Office of Economic Development.
(8)  "Tax credit" means an economic development tax credit created by Section
59-7-614.2 or 59-10-1107.
(9)  "Tax credit amount" means the amount the office lists as a tax credit on
a tax credit certificate for a taxable year.
(10)  "Tax credit certificate" means a certificate issued by the office that:
(a)  lists the name of the applicant;
(b)  lists the applicant's taxpayer identification number;
(c)  lists the amount of tax credit that the office awards the applicant for
the taxable year; and
(d)  may include other information as determined by the office.
