63M-1-2405.    Qualifications for tax credit -- Procedure.
(1)  The office shall certify a business entity's eligibility for a tax credit
as provided in this section.
(2)  A business entity seeking to receive a tax credit shall provide the
office with:
(a)  an application for a tax credit certificate;
(b)  documentation of the new state revenues from the business entity's new
commercial project that were paid during the preceding calendar year; and
(c)  a document that expressly directs and authorizes the State Tax Commission
to disclose the business entity's returns and other information concerning the
business entity that would otherwise be subject to confidentiality under
Section 59-1-403 or Section 6103, Internal Revenue Code, to the office.
(3) (a)  The office shall submit the document described in Subsection (2)(c)
to the State Tax Commission.
(b)  Upon receipt of the document described in Subsection (2)(c), the State
Tax Commission shall provide the office with the information requested by the
office that the business entity directed or authorized the State Tax
Commission to provide to the office in the document described in Subsection
(2)(c).
(4)  If, after review of the information provided by the State Tax Commission,
the office determines that the documentation provided by the business entity
is inadequate to provide a reasonable justification for authorizing a tax
credit, the office shall either:
(a)  deny the tax credit; or
(b)  inform the business entity that the documentation was inadequate and ask
the business entity to submit new documentation.
(5)  If after review of the information provided by the State Tax Commission,
the office determines that the documentation provided by the business entity
provides reasonable justification for authorizing a tax credit, the office
shall, based upon the documentation:
(a)  determine the amount of the tax credit to be granted to the business
entity;
(b)  issue a tax credit certificate to the business entity; and
(c)  provide a duplicate copy of the tax credit certificate to the State Tax
Commission.
(6)  A business entity may not claim a tax credit unless the business entity
has a tax credit certificate issued by the office.
(7) (a)  A business entity may claim a tax credit in the amount listed on the
tax credit certificate on its tax return.
(b)  A business entity that claims a tax credit under this section shall
retain the tax credit certificate in accordance with Section 59-7-614.2 or
59-10-1107.
