63M-1-2604.   Committee for reviewing proposals -- Appointment -- Accepting
or rejecting proposal.
(1)  The director shall appoint a committee composed of members of the board
to review and evaluate a proposal submitted in accordance with this part.
(2)  The director shall determine the number of board members that constitute
a committee.
(3)  The committee shall, at all times, consist of less than a quorum of the
members of the board, as established under Section 63M-1-301.
(4)  A committee member shall serve on the committee until:
(a)  replaced by the director; or
(b)  the committee member ceases to be a member of the board.
(5)  The director may fill a vacancy among voting members on the committee.
(6)  The committee shall include the following nonvoting members in addition
to the members appointed under Subsection (1):
(a)  a member of the Senate, appointed by the president of the Senate; and
(b)  a member of the House of Representatives, appointed by the speaker of the
House of Representatives, who may not be from the same political party as the
member of the Senate appointed under Subsection (6)(a).
(7) (a)  A vacancy among legislative members appointed under Subsection (6)
shall be filled by the president of the Senate or the speaker of the House of
Representatives, respectively.
(b)  At the time of appointment or reappointment, the president of the Senate
and the speaker of the House of Representatives shall consult to ensure that
the legislative members appointed under Subsection (6) are not members of the
same political party.
(8)  A committee member is subject to Title 67, Chapter 16, Utah Public
Officers' and Employees' Ethics Act, and any additional requirement
established by the board in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(9)  The committee shall inform a private entity of the committee's decision
to approve or reject a proposal in writing.
(10)  If the committee, in its sole discretion, accepts a proposal, the
proposal shall be evaluated under this part.
(11)  If the committee, in its sole discretion, rejects a proposal, the
committee shall notify the private entity of the reason for the rejection and
shall return any remaining portion of the fee required under Section
63M-1-2612.
