63M-1-2704.   Establishment and administration of business resource centers -- Components.

(1)  The Governor's Office of Economic Development, hereafter referred to in this part as "the office," shall establish business resource centers in at least four different geographical regions of the state where host institutions are located and the host institutions agree to enter into a business resource center partnership with the office.

(2)  The office, in partnership with a host institution, shall provide methodology and oversight for a business resource center.

(3)  A host institution shall contribute 50% of a business resource center's operating costs through cash or in-kind contributions, unless otherwise provided under Subsection 63M-1-2707(6).

(4)  The office shall work with the Utah Business Resource Centers Advisory Board established under Section 63M-1-2706, hereafter referred to in this part as "the board," to provide operational oversight and coordination of the business resource centers established under this part.

(5) (a)  A business resource center shall work with state agencies in creating methods to coordinate functions and measure the impact of the efforts provided by the state agencies and the center.

(b)  The host institution, state, local and federal governmental entities, quasi-governmental entities, and private entities may:

(i)  participate in the activities offered by or through a business resource center; and

(ii)  provide personnel or other appropriate links to the center.

(c) (i)  Other entities that are not initially involved in the establishment of a business resource center and that are capable of providing supportive services to Utah businesses may apply to the center to become a provider of services at the center.

(ii)  Entities identified in Subsections (5)(a) and (b) shall provide the board with a service plan, to include funding, which would be made available or supplied to cover the expenses of their services offered at a business resource center.

(iii)  The board shall review each application made under Subsection (5)(c)(i) and make a recommendation for approval by the office as a precondition for providing the service being offered.

(6)  A business resource center may:

(a)  partner with the Governor's Office of Economic Development, other host institutions, and other entities to develop and establish web-based access to virtual business resource center services over the Internet to assist in establishing and growing businesses in the state, particularly in those situations where traveling to a business resource center site is not practical;

(b)  develop a data base and software for:

(i)  tracking clients and their progress; and

(ii)  tracking responses and services provided by state agencies and evaluating their effectiveness; and

(c)  develop outreach programs and services targeted to business clients in rural areas of the state.

(7)  The Governor's Office of Economic Development shall make a report by November 1 of each year to the Workforce Services and Community and Economic Development and Business and Labor Interim Committees and the state board of regents on measured performance of economic development programs offered by or through established business resource centers.

