63M-1-2706.   Utah Business Assistance Advisory Board -- Creation -- Membership -- Vacancies -- Chairs.

(1)  There is created the Utah Business Assistance Advisory Board, composed of at least 13 members appointed by the executive director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development.

(2) (a)  The executive director shall appoint:

(i)  one member from three host institutions of business resource centers on a rotating basis;

(ii)  three members from urban areas in the state;

(iii)  two members from rural areas in the state; and

(iv)  one member from each host institution of a statewide business service provider.

(b)  The executive director may appoint ex officio board members who are sponsors of or partners with statewide business server providers.

(3)  Each board member shall have a background or expertise in any one or all of the following:

(a)  state or local economic development;

(b)  business networking, growth, or development;

(c)  entrepreneurship;

(d)  business management or administration; or

(e)  the establishment of partnerships or collaborative efforts with state, local, and federal agencies and institutions, as well as private entities.

(4) (a)  The executive director shall appoint board members for four-year terms.

(b)  The board shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of these members are staggered so that approximately half of the members are appointed every two years.

(c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed by the executive director for the unexpired term in the same manner as the vacated member was chosen.

(5)  The board shall elect one of its members as a chair of the board for a two-year term.

(6)  The board shall meet at the call of the chair, but at least quarterly.

(7) (a)  A majority of the members of the board constitute a quorum.

(b)  The action of a majority of a quorum constitutes the action of the board.

(8)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 112, 2011 General Session

