63M-1-2803.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1) (a)  "Alternative energy"means:
(i)  renewable energy that is derived from solar, wind, geothermal, biomass,
or hydroelectric sources; and
(ii)  petroleum coke, shale oil, nuclear fuel, tar sands, or oil-impregnated
diatomaceous earth.
(b)  "Alternative energy" does not mean conventional natural gas or petroleum.
(2)  "Alternative energy development zone" means an alternative energy
development zone created under Section 63M-1-2804.
(3)  "Alternative energy project" means a development opportunity that
involves:
(a)  utility-scale alternative energy generation;
(b)  the extraction of alternative fuels; or
(c)  manufacturing of equipment used directly in alternative energy
generation.
(4)  "Business entity" means a person that:
(a)  conducts business in Utah; and
(b)  enters into an agreement with the office that qualifies the person to
receive a tax credit under Section 59-7-614.2 or 59-10-1107.
(5)  "High paying jobs" means the annual wages of employment positions in a
business entity that compare favorably against the average wage of a community
in which the employment positions will exist.
(6)  "New incremental jobs" means employment positions that are:
(a)  not shifted from one jurisdiction in the state to another jurisdiction in
the state; and
(b)  created in addition to the baseline count of employment positions that
existed within the business entity before the new commercial project.
(7)  "New state revenues" means:
(a)  incremental new state sales and use tax revenues generated as a result of
an alternative energy project in an alternative energy development zone that a
business entity pays under Title 59, Chapter 12, Sales and Use Tax Act;
(b)  incremental new state tax revenues that a business entity pays as a
result of an alternative energy project in an alternative energy development
zone under:
(i)  Title 59, Chapter 7, Corporate Franchise and Income Taxes;
(ii)  Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 1, Determination and Reporting of Tax
Liability and Information;
(iii)  Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 2, Trusts and Estates;
(iv)  Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 4, Withholding of Tax; or
(v)  a combination of Subsections (7)(b)(i) through (7)(b)(iv);
(c)  incremental new state tax revenues generated as individual income taxes
under Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 1, Determination and Reporting of Tax
Liability and Information, paid by employees of the new commercial project as
evidenced by payroll records from the business entity; or
(d)  a combination of Subsections (7)(a) through (7)(c).
(8)  "Office" means the Governor's Office of Economic Development.
(9)  "Tax credit" means an economic development tax credit created by Section
59-7-614.2 or 59-10-1107.
(10)  "Tax credit amount" means the amount the office lists as a tax credit on
a tax credit certificate for a taxable year.
(11)  "Tax credit certificate" means a certificate issued by the office that:
(a)  lists the name of the applicant;
(b)  lists the applicant's taxpayer identification number;
(c)  lists the amount of the tax credit that the office awards the applicant
for a taxable year; and
(d)  may include other information as determined by the office.
