63M-1-2805.   Qualifications for tax credit -- Procedure.
(1)  The office shall certify a business entity's eligibility for a tax credit
as provided in this section.
(2)  A business entity seeking to receive a tax credit shall provide the
office with:
(a)  an application for the tax credit certificate;
(b)  documentation of the new state revenues generated from the business
entity's renewable energy project that were paid during the preceding calendar
year; and
(c)  a document that expressly directs and authorizes the State Tax Commission
to disclose to the office the business entity's returns and other information
concerning the business entity that would otherwise be subject to
confidentiality under Section 59-1-403 or Section 6103 of the Internal Revenue
Code.
(3) (a)  The office shall submit the document referred to in Subsection (2)(c)
to the State Tax Commission.
(b)  Upon receipt of the document, the State Tax Commission shall provide the
office with the information requested by the office that the business entity
directed or authorized the State Tax Commission to provide to the office in
the document referred to in Subsection (2)(c).
(4)  If after review of the information provided by the business entity and
the State Tax Commission the office determines that the documentation provided
by the business entity is not substantially accurate, the office shall either:
(a)  deny the tax credit; or
(b)  inform the business entity that the documentation was inadequate and ask
the business entity to submit new documentation.
(5)  If after review of the information provided by the entity and the State
Tax Commission the office determines that the documentation provided by the
business entity is substantially accurate, the office shall, based upon the
documentation:
(a)  determine the amount of the tax credit to be granted to the business
entity;
(b)  issue a tax credit certificate to the business entity; and
(c)  provide a duplicate copy of the tax credit certificate to the State Tax
Commission.
(6)  A business entity may not claim a tax credit under this part unless the
business entity has a tax credit certificate issued by the office.
(7)  A business entity that claims the credit under this section shall retain
the tax credit certificate in accordance with Section 59-7-614.2 or
59-10-1107.
