63M-1-3202.   STEM Action Center Board creation -- Membership.

(1)  There is created the STEM Action Center Board within the office, composed of the following members:

(a)  five private sector members who represent business, appointed by the governor;

(b)  the state superintendent of public instruction or the state superintendent of public instruction's designee;

(c)  the commissioner of higher education or the commissioner of higher education's designee;

(d)  one member appointed by the governor;

(e)  a member of the State Board of Education, chosen by the chair of the State Board of Education;

(f)  the executive director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development or the executive director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development's designee; and

(g)  the president of the Utah College of Applied Technology or the president of the Utah College of Applied Technology's designee.

(2) (a)  The private sector members appointed by the governor in Subsection (1)(a) shall represent a business whose primary focus is science, technology, or engineering.

(b)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(c), members appointed by the governor shall be appointed to four-year terms.

(c)  The length of terms of the members shall be staggered so that approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.

(d)  The members may not serve more than two full consecutive terms except where the governor determines that an additional term is in the best interest of the state.

(e)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(3)  Attendance of a simple majority of the members constitutes a quorum for the transaction of official committee business.

(4)  Formal action by the committee requires a majority vote of a quorum.

(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(6)  The governor shall select the chair of the board to serve a one-year term.

(7)  The executive director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development or the executive director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development's designee shall serve as the vice chair of the board.

(8)  The state science advisor described in Section 63M-1-606 and the office shall provide staff support to the board.



Enacted by Chapter 336, 2013 General Session

