63M-1-3205.   Acquisition of STEM education related instructional technology program -- Research and development of education related instructional technology through a pilot program.

(1)  For purposes of this section:

(a)  "Pilot" means a pilot of the program.

(b)  "Program" means the STEM education related instructional technology program created in Subsection (2).

(2) (a)  There is created the STEM education related instructional technology program to provide public schools the STEM education related instructional technology described in Subsection (3).

(b)  On behalf of the board, the staff of the board and the staff of the State Board of Education shall collaborate and may select one or more providers, through a request for proposals process, to provide STEM education related instructional technology to school districts and charter schools.

(c)  On behalf of the board, the staff of the board and the staff of the State Board of Education shall consider and may accept an offer from a provider in response to the request for proposals described in Subsection (2)(b) even if the provider did not participate in a pilot described in Subsection (5).

(3)  The STEM education related instructional technology shall:

(a)  support mathematics instruction for students in grade 6, 7, or 8; or

(b)  support mathematics instruction for secondary students to prepare the secondary students for college mathematics courses.

(4)  In selecting a provider for STEM education related instructional technology to support mathematics instruction for students in grade 6, 7, or 8 as described in Subsection (3)(a), the board shall consider the following criteria:

(a)  the technology contains individualized instructional support for skills and understanding of the core standards in mathematics;

(b)  the technology is self-adapting to respond to the needs and progress of the learner; and

(c)  the technology provides opportunities for frequent, quick, and informal assessments and includes an embedded progress monitoring tool and mechanisms for regular feedback to students and teachers.

(5)  Before issuing a request for proposals described in Subsection (2), on behalf of the board, the staff of the board and the staff of the State Board of Education shall collaborate and may:

(a)  conduct a pilot of the program to test and select providers for the program;

(b)  select at least two providers through a direct award or sole source procurement process for the purpose of conducting the pilot; and

(c)  select schools to participate in the pilot.

(6) (a)  A contract with a provider for STEM education related instructional technology may include professional development for full deployment of the STEM education related instructional technology.

(b)  No more than 10% of the money appropriated for the program may be used to provide professional development related to STEM education related instructional technology in addition to the professional development described in Subsection (6)(a).



Enacted by Chapter 336, 2013 General Session

