32A-5-107.   Operational restrictions.
A person granted a club license and the employees, management personnel, and
members of an equity club licensee or fraternal club licensee shall comply
with the following conditions and requirements.  Failure to comply may result
in a suspension or revocation of the club license or other disciplinary action
taken against individual employees or management personnel.
(1)  An equity club licensee or fraternal club licensee shall comply with the
following:
(a)  A club licensee shall have a governing body that:
(i)  consists of three or more members of the club; and
(ii)  holds regular meetings to:
(A)  review membership applications; and
(B)  conduct other business as required by the bylaws or house rules of the
club.
(b)  A club licensee may admit an individual as a member only on written
application signed by the applicant, subject to:
(i)  the applicant paying an application fee; and
(ii)  investigation, vote, and approval of a quorum of the governing body.
(c)  A club licensee shall:
(i)  record an admission of a member in the official minutes of a regular
meeting of the governing body; and
(ii)  whether approved or disapproved, file an application as a part of the
official records of the club licensee.
(d)  The spouse of a member of a club licensee has the rights and privileges
of the member:
(i)  to the extent permitted by the bylaws or house rules of the club
licensee; and
(ii)  except to the extent restricted by this title.
(e) A minor child of a member of a club licensee has the rights and privileges
of the member:
(i)  to the extent permitted by the bylaws or house rules of the club
licensee; and
(ii)  except to the extent restricted by this title.
(f)  A club licensee shall maintain a current and complete membership record
showing:
(i)  the date of application of a proposed member;
(ii)  a member's address;
(iii)  the date the governing body approved a member's admission;
(iv)  the date initiation fees and dues are assessed and paid; and
(v)  the serial number of the membership card issued to a member.
(g)  A club licensee shall keep a current record indicating when a member is
removed as a member or resigns.
(h)  A club licensee shall establish in the club licensee's bylaws or house
rules application fees and membership dues.
(i)  A club licensee may, in its discretion, allow an individual to be
admitted to or use the club license premises as a guest subject to the
following conditions:
(i)  the individual is allowed to use the club license premises only to the
extent permitted by the club licensee's bylaws or house rules;
(ii)  the individual must be previously authorized by a member of the club who
agrees to host the individual as a guest into the club;
(iii)  the individual has only those privileges derived from the individual's
host for the duration of the individual's visit to the club license premises;
and
(iv)  a club licensee or an employee of the club licensee may not enter into
an agreement or arrangement with a club member to indiscriminately host a
member of the general public into the club license premises as a guest.
(j)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(i), an individual may be allowed as a
guest in a club license premises without a host if:
(i) (A)  the club licensee is an equity club licensee; and
(B)  the individual is a member of an equity club licensee that has reciprocal
guest privileges with the equity club licensee for which the individual is a
guest; or
(ii) (A)  the club licensee is a fraternal club licensee; and
(B)  the individual is a member of the same fraternal organization as the
fraternal club licensee for which the individual is a guest.
(k)  A club licensee may not sell an alcoholic beverage to or allow a patron
to be admitted to or use the club license premises other than:
(i)  a member; or
(ii)  a guest under Subsection (1)(i) or (j).
(l)  A minor may not be a member, officer, director, or trustee of a club
licensee.
(m) (i)  A club licensee shall maintain a minute book that is posted currently
by the club licensee.
(ii)  The minute book required by this Subsection (1)(m) shall contain the
minutes of a regular or special meeting of the governing body.
(n)  A club licensee shall maintain a membership list.
(o)  A club licensee shall maintain a current copy of the club licensee's
current bylaws and current house rules.
(p)  Public advertising related to a club licensee by the following shall
clearly identify a club as being "a club for members":
(i)  the club licensee;
(ii)  an employee or agent of the club licensee; or
(iii)  a person under a contract or agreement with the club licensee.
(2) (a)  A minor may not be admitted into, use, or be on:
(i)  a lounge or bar area, as defined by commission rule, of the premises of:
(A)  an equity club licensee;
(B)  a fraternal club licensee; or
(C)  a dining club licensee; or
(ii)  the premises of:
(A)  a dining club licensee unless accompanied by an individual who is 21
years of age or older; or
(B)  a social club licensee, except to the extent provided for under
Subsection (2)(d).
(b) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b)(ii), a club licensee may not
employ a minor to:
(A)  sell, dispense, or handle an alcoholic beverage; or
(B)  work in a lounge or bar area of an equity club licensee, fraternal club
licensee, or dining club licensee.
(ii)  An equity club licensee or dining club licensee may employ a minor who
is at least 16 years of age to enter the sale at a cash register or other
sales recording device, except that a minor may not work in a lounge or bar
area of the club licensee.
(c)  A minor may not be employed on the premises of a social club licensee.
(d) (i)  A minor who is at least 18 years of age may be admitted into, use, or
be on the premises of a dance or concert hall if:
(A)  the dance or concert hall is located:
(I)  on the premises of a social club licensee; or
(II)  on the property that immediately adjoins the premises of and is operated
by a social club licensee; and
(B)  the social club licensee holds a permit to operate a dance or concert
hall that was granted on or before May 11, 2009:
(I)  on the basis of the operational requirements described in Subsection
(2)(d)(ii); and
(II)  when the social club licensee was licensed as a class D private club.
(ii)  A social club licensee that holds a dance or concert hall permit shall
operate in such a way that:
(A)  the social club licensee's lounge, bar, or other area for alcoholic
beverage consumption is:
(I)  not accessible to a minor;
(II)  clearly defined; and
(III)  separated from the dance or concert hall area by one or more walls,
multiple floor levels, or other substantial physical barriers;
(B)  a bar or dispensing area is not visible to a minor;
(C)  consumption of an alcoholic beverage may not occur in:
(I)  the dance or concert hall area; or
(II)  an area of the social club license premises accessible to a minor;
(D)  the social club licensee maintains sufficient security personnel to
prevent the passing of beverages from the social club licensee's lounge, bar,
or other area for alcoholic beverage consumption to:
(I)  the dance or concert hall area; or
(II)  an area of the social club license premises accessible to a minor;
(E)  there are one or more separate entrances, exits, and restroom facilities
from the social club licensee's lounge, bar, or other area for alcoholic
beverage consumption than for:
(I)  the dance or concert hall area; or
(II)  an area accessible to a minor; and
(F)  the social club licensee complies with any other restrictions imposed by
the commission by rule.
(iii)  A minor under 18 years of age who is accompanied at all times by a
parent or legal guardian may be admitted into, use, or be on the premises of a
concert hall described in Subsection (2)(d)(ii) if:
(A)  the requirements of Subsection (2)(d) are met; and
(B)  signage, product, and dispensing equipment containing recognition of an
alcoholic beverage is not visible to the minor.
(iv)  A minor under 18 years of age but who is 14 years of age or older who is
not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian may be admitted into, use, or be
on the premises of a concert hall described in Subsection (2)(d)(ii) if:
(A)  the requirements of Subsections (2)(d)(ii) and (iii) are met; and
(B)  there is no alcoholic beverage, sales, service, or consumption on the
premises of the social club licensee.
(v)  The commission may suspend or revoke a dance or concert permit issued to
a social club licensee and suspend or revoke the license of the social club
licensee if:
(A)  the social club licensee fails to comply with the restrictions in this
Subsection (2)(d);
(B)  the social club licensee sells, serves, or otherwise furnishes an
alcoholic beverage to a minor;
(C)  the social club licensee or a supervisory or managerial level employee of
the social club licensee is convicted under Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah
Controlled Substances Act, on the basis of an activity that occurs on:
(I)  the licensed premises; or
(II)  the dance or concert hall that is located on property that immediately
adjoins the premises of and is operated by the social club licensee;
(D)  there are three or more convictions of patrons of the social club
licensee under Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, on the
basis of activities that occur on:
(I)  the licensed premises; or
(II)  the dance or concert hall that is located on property that immediately
adjoins the premises of and is operated by the social club licensee;
(E)  there is more than one conviction:
(I)  of:
(Aa)  the social club licensee;
(Bb)  an employee of the social club licensee;
(Cc)  an entertainer contracted by the social club licensee; or
(Dd)  a patron of the social club licensee; and
(II)  made on the basis of a lewd act or lewd entertainment prohibited by this
title that occurs on:
(A)  the licensed premises; or
(B)  the dance or concert hall that is located on property that immediately
adjoins the premises of and is operated by the social club licensee; or
(F)  the commission finds acts or conduct contrary to the public welfare and
morals involving lewd acts or lewd entertainment prohibited by this title that
occurs on:
(I)  the licensed premises; or
(II)  the dance or concert hall that is located on property that immediately
adjoins the premises of and is operated by the social club licensee.
(vi)  Nothing in this Subsection (2) prohibits a social club licensee from
selling, serving, or otherwise furnishing an alcoholic beverage in a dance or
concert area located on the social club license premises on days and times
when the social club licensee does not allow a minor into those areas.
(e)  Nothing in this Subsection (2) precludes a local authority from being
more restrictive of a minor's admittance to, use of, or presence on the
premises of a club licensee.
(3) (a)  A club license shall maintain an expense ledger or record showing in
detail:
(i)  quarterly expenditures separated by payments for:
(A)  malt or brewed beverages;
(B)  liquor;
(C)  food;
(D)  set-ups; and
(E)  any other item required by the department; and
(ii)  sales made separately for:
(A)  malt or brewed beverages;
(B)  liquor;
(C)  food;
(D)  set-ups; and
(E)  any other item required by the department.
(b)  A club licensee shall keep a record required by this Subsection (3):
(i)  in a form approved by the department; and
(ii)  current for each three-month period.
(c)  An expenditure of a club licensee shall be supported by:
(i)  a delivery ticket;
(ii)  an invoice;
(iii)  a receipted bill;
(iv)  a canceled check;
(v)  a petty cash voucher; or
(vi)  other sustaining datum or memorandum.
(d)  In addition to a ledger or record required by Subsection (3)(a), a club
licensee shall maintain accounting and other records and documents as the
department may require.
(e)  A club licensee or person acting for the club licensee, who knowingly
forges, falsifies, alters, cancels, destroys, conceals, or removes an entry in
a book of account or other document of the club licensee required to be made,
maintained, or preserved by this title or the rules of the commission for the
purpose of deceiving the commission, the department, or an official or
employee of the commission or department, is subject to:
(i)  the suspension or revocation of the club license; and
(ii)  possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.
(f)  A club licensee shall maintain and keep a record required by this section
and a book, record, receipt, or disbursement maintained or used by the club
licensee, as the department requires, for a minimum period of three years.
(g)  A record, book, receipt, or disbursement is subject to inspection by an
authorized representative of the commission and the department.
(h)  A club licensee shall allow the department, through an auditor or
examiner of the department, to audit the records of the club licensee at times
the department considers advisable.
(i)  The department shall audit the records of the club licensee at least once
annually.
(4) (a)  A club licensee shall own or lease premises suitable for the club
licensee's activities.
(b)  A club licensee may not maintain premises in a manner that barricades or
conceals the club licensee's operation.
(c)  A member of the commission, authorized department personnel, or a peace
officer shall, upon presentation of credentials, be admitted immediately to
the club license premises and permitted without hindrance or delay to inspect
completely the entire club license premises and the books and records of the
club licensee, at any time during which the club licensee is open for the
transaction of business to its members.
(5)  A club licensee must have food available at all times when an alcoholic
beverage is sold, served, or consumed on the premises.
(6) (a)  A club licensee may not purchase liquor except from a state store or
package agency.
(b)  Liquor purchased from a state store or package agency may be transported
by the club licensee from the place of purchase to the licensed premises.
(c)  Payment for liquor shall be made in accordance with rules established by
the commission.
(7)  A club licensee may sell or provide a primary spirituous liquor only in a
quantity not to exceed 1.5 ounces per beverage dispensed through a calibrated
metered dispensing system approved by the department in accordance with
commission rules adopted under this title, except that:
(a)  spirituous liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered
dispensing system if used as a secondary flavoring ingredient in a beverage
subject to the following restrictions:
(i)  the secondary ingredient may be dispensed only in conjunction with the
purchase of a primary spirituous liquor;
(ii)  the secondary ingredient may not be the only spirituous liquor in the
beverage;
(iii)  the club licensee shall designate a location where flavorings are
stored on the floor plan provided to the department; and
(iv)  a flavoring container shall be plainly and conspicuously labeled
"flavorings";
(b)  spirituous liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered
dispensing system if used:
(i)  as a flavoring on a dessert; and
(ii)  in the preparation of a flaming food dish, drink, or dessert;
(c)  a club licensee patron may have no more than 2.5 ounces of spirituous
liquor at a time before the club licensee patron; and
(d)  a club licensee patron may have no more than two spirituous liquor drinks
at a time before the club licensee patron, except that a club licensee patron
may not have two spirituous liquor drinks before the club licensee patron if
one of the spirituous liquor drinks consists only of the primary spirituous
liquor for the other spirituous liquor drink.
(8) (a) (i)  Wine may be sold and served by the glass or an individual portion
not to exceed five ounces per glass or individual portion.
(ii)  An individual portion may be served to a patron in more than one glass
as long as the total amount of wine does not exceed five ounces.
(iii)  An individual portion of wine is considered to be one alcoholic
beverage under Subsection (12)(c).
(b) (i)  Wine may be sold and served in a container not exceeding 1.5 liters
at a price fixed by the commission to a table of four or more persons.
(ii)  Wine may be sold and served in a container not exceeding 750 milliliters
at a price fixed by the commission to a table of less than four persons.
(c)  A wine service may be performed and a service charge assessed by the club
licensee as authorized by commission rule for wine purchased at the club
license premises.
(9) (a)  Heavy beer may be served in an original container not exceeding one
liter at a price fixed by the commission.
(b)  A flavored malt beverage may be served in an original container not
exceeding one liter at a price fixed by the commission.
(c)  A service charge may be assessed by the club licensee for heavy beer or a
flavored malt beverage purchased at the club license premises.
(10) (a) (i)  Subject to Subsection (10)(a)(ii), a club licensee may sell beer
for on-premise consumption:
(A)  in an open container; and
(B)  on draft.
(ii)  Beer sold pursuant to Subsection (10)(a)(i) shall be in a size of
container that does not exceed two liters, except that beer may not be sold to
an individual patron in a size of container that exceeds one liter.
(b) (i)  A club licensee that sells beer pursuant to Subsection (10)(a):
(A)  may do so without obtaining a separate on-premise beer retailer license
from the commission; and
(B)  shall comply with all appropriate operational restrictions under Chapter
10, Beer Retailer Licenses, that apply to an on-premise beer retailer except
when those restrictions are inconsistent with or less restrictive than the
operational restrictions under this chapter.
(ii)  Failure to comply with the operational restrictions under Chapter 10,
Beer Retailer Licenses, required by Subsection (10)(b)(i) may result in a
suspension or revocation of the club licensee's:
(A)  state liquor license; and
(B)  alcoholic beverage license issued by the local authority.
(11)  An alcoholic beverage may not be stored, served, or sold in a place
other than as designated in the club licensee's application, unless the club
licensee first applies for and receives approval from the department for a
change of location within the club license.
(12) (a)  A patron may only make an alcoholic beverage purchase in the club
license premises from and be served by a person employed, designated, and
trained by the club licensee to sell, dispense, and serve an alcoholic
beverage.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (12)(a), a patron who purchases bottled wine
from an employee of the club licensee or carries bottled wine onto the
premises of the club licensee pursuant to Subsection (18) may thereafter serve
wine from the bottle to the patron or others at the patron's table.
(c)  A club licensee patron may have no more than two alcoholic beverages of
any kind at a time before the club licensee patron, subject to the limitation
of Subsection (7)(d).
(13)  The liquor storage area shall remain locked at all times other than
those hours and days when liquor sales and service are authorized by law.
(14) (a)  Liquor may not be sold, offered for sale, served, or otherwise
furnished at a club license premises on any day after 1 a.m. or before 10 a.m.
(b)  The hours of beer sales and service are those specified in Chapter 10,
Beer Retailer Licenses, for on-premise beer licenses.
(c) (i)  Notwithstanding Subsections (14)(a) and (b), a club license premises
shall remain open for one hour after the club licensee ceases the sale and
service of an alcoholic beverage during which time a patron of the club
licensee may finish consuming:
(A)  a single drink containing spirituous liquor;
(B)  a single serving of wine not exceeding five ounces;
(C)  a single serving of heavy beer;
(D)  a single serving of beer not exceeding 26 ounces; or
(E)  a single serving of a flavored malt beverage.
(ii)  A club licensee is not required to remain open:
(A)  after all patrons have vacated the premises; or
(B)  during an emergency.
(d)  Between the hours of 2 a.m. and 10 a.m. on any day a club licensee may
not allow a patron to remain on the premises of the club licensee to consume
an alcoholic beverage on the premises.
(15)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold, served, or otherwise furnished to
a:
(a)  minor;
(b)  person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;
(c)  known habitual drunkard; or
(d)  known interdicted person.
(16) (a) (i)  Liquor may be sold only at a price fixed by the commission.
(ii)  Liquor may not be sold at a discount price on any date or at any time.
(b)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at less than the cost of the
alcoholic beverage to the club licensee.
(c)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at a special or reduced price that
encourages over consumption or intoxication.
(d)  The price of a single serving of a primary spirituous liquor shall be the
same whether served as a single drink or in conjunction with another alcoholic
beverage.
(e)  An alcoholic beverage may not be sold at a special or reduced price for
only certain hours of the club licensee's business day such as a "happy hour."
(f)  More than one alcoholic beverage may not be sold or served for the price
of a single alcoholic beverage.
(g)  An indefinite or unlimited number of alcoholic beverages may not be sold
or served during a set period for a fixed price.
(h)  A club licensee may not engage in a promotion involving or offering free
alcoholic beverages to patrons of the club licensee.
(17)  An alcoholic beverage may not be purchased for a patron of the club
licensee by:
(a)  the club licensee; or
(b)  an employee or agent of the club licensee.
(18) (a)  A person may not bring onto the premises of a club licensee an
alcoholic beverage for on-premise consumption, except a person may bring,
subject to the discretion of the club licensee, bottled wine onto the premises
of a club licensee for on-premise consumption.
(b)  Except bottled wine under Subsection (18)(a), a club licensee or an
officer, manager, employee, or agent of a club licensee may not allow:
(i)  a person to bring onto the club license premises an alcoholic beverage
for consumption on the club license premises; or
(ii)  consumption of an alcoholic beverage described in Subsection (18)(b)(i)
on the premises of the club licensee.
(c)  If bottled wine is carried in by a patron, the patron shall deliver the
wine to a server or other representative of the club licensee upon entering
the club license premises.
(d)  A wine service may be performed and a service charge assessed by the club
licensee as authorized by commission rule for wine carried in by a patron.
(19) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (19)(b), a club licensee or an
employee of the club licensee may not permit a patron of the club licensee to
carry from the club license premises an open container that:
(i)  is used primarily for drinking purposes; and
(ii)  contains an alcoholic beverage.
(b)  A patron may remove the unconsumed contents of a bottle of wine if before
removal, the bottle is recorked or recapped.
(20)  An employee of a club licensee, while on duty, may not:
(a)  consume an alcoholic beverage; or
(b)  be intoxicated.
(21)  A club licensee shall have available on the premises for a patron to
review at the time that the patron requests it, a written alcoholic beverage
price list or a menu containing the price of an alcoholic beverage sold or
served by the club licensee including:
(a)  a set-up charge;
(b)  a service charge; or
(c)  a chilling fee.
(22)  A club licensee shall display in a prominent place in the club license
premises:
(a)  the club license that is issued by the department;
(b)  a list of the types and brand names of liquor being served through the
club licensee's calibrated metered dispensing system; and
(c)  a sign in large letters stating: "Warning: Driving under the influence of
alcohol or drugs is a serious crime that is prosecuted aggressively in Utah."
(23)  A club licensee may not on the premises of the club licensee:
(a)  engage in or permit any form of gambling, as defined and proscribed in
Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling;
(b)  have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed in Title 76,
Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling; or
(c)  engage in or permit a contest, game, gaming scheme, or gaming device that
requires the risking of something of value for a return or for an outcome when
the return or outcome is based upon an element of chance, excluding the
playing of an amusement device that confers only an immediate and unrecorded
right of replay not exchangeable for value.
(24) (a)  A club licensee may not close or cease operation for a period longer
than 240 hours, unless:
(i)  the club licensee notifies the department in writing at least seven days
before the day on which the club licensee closes or ceases operation; and
(ii)  the closure or cessation of operation is first approved by the
department.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (24)(a), in the case of emergency closure, the
club licensee shall immediately notify the department by telephone.
(c) (i)  The department may authorize a closure or cessation of operation for
a period not to exceed 60 days.
(ii)  The department may extend the initial period an additional 30 days upon:
(A)  written request of the club licensee; and
(B)  a showing of good cause.
(iii)  A closure or cessation of operation may not exceed a total of 90 days
without commission approval.
(d)  The notice required by Subsection (24)(a) shall include:
(i)  the dates of closure or cessation of operation;
(ii)  the reason for the closure or cessation of operation; and
(iii)  the date on which the club licensee will reopen or resume operation.
(e)  Failure of the club licensee to provide notice and to obtain department
authorization before closure or cessation of operation results in an automatic
forfeiture of:
(i)  the club license; and
(ii)  the unused portion of the club license fee for the remainder of the
license year effective immediately.
(f)  Failure of the club licensee to reopen or resume operation by the
approved date results in an automatic forfeiture of:
(i)  the club license; and
(ii)  the unused portion of the club license fee for the remainder of the
license year.
(25)  A club license may not be transferred from one location to another
location, without prior written approval of the commission.
(26) (a)  A club licensee, may not sell, transfer, assign, exchange, barter,
give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the club license to another person,
whether for monetary gain or not.
(b)  A club license has no monetary value for the purpose of any type of
disposition.
(27)  Subject to Subsections (25) and (26), a club licensee may not
temporarily rent or otherwise temporarily lease its premises to a person
unless:
(a)  the person to whom the club licensee rents or leases the premises agrees
in writing to comply with this section as if the person is the club licensee,
except for a requirement related to maintaining a book, document, or similar
record; and
(b)  the club licensee takes reasonable steps to ensure that the person
complies with this section as provided in Subsection (26)(a).
(28)  A dining club licensee or social club licensee shall comply with Section
32A-1-304.5.
(29)  A club licensee or an employee of the club licensee may not knowingly
allow a person on the licensed premises to, in violation of Title 58, Chapter
37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or Chapter 37a, Utah Drug Paraphernalia
Act:
(a)  sell, distribute, possess, or use a controlled substance, as defined in
Section 58-37-2; or
(b)  use, deliver, or possess with the intent to deliver drug paraphernalia,
as defined in Section 58-37a-3.
