72-9-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1) (a)  "Commercial vehicle" includes:

(i)  an interstate commercial vehicle; and

(ii)  an intrastate commercial vehicle.

(b)  "Commercial vehicle" does not include the following vehicles for purposes of this chapter:

(i)  equipment owned and operated by the United States Department of Defense when driven by any active duty military personnel and members of the reserves and national guard on active duty including personnel on full-time national guard duty, personnel on part-time training, and national guard military technicians and civilians who are required to wear military uniforms and are subject to the code of military justice;

(ii)  firefighting and emergency vehicles, operated by emergency personnel, not including commercial tow trucks; and

(iii)  recreational vehicles that are driven solely as family or personal conveyances for noncommercial purposes.

(2)  "Interstate commercial vehicle" means a self-propelled or towed motor vehicle used on a highway in interstate commerce to transport passengers or property if the vehicle:

(a)  has a gross vehicle weight rating or gross combination weight rating of 10,001 or more pounds;

(b)  is designed or used to transport more than eight passengers, including the driver, for compensation;

(c)  is designed or used to transport more than 15 passengers, including the driver, and is not used to transport passengers for compensation; or

(d) (i)  is used to transport materials designated as hazardous in accordance with 49 U.S.C. Sec. 5103; and

(ii)  is required to be placarded in accordance with regulations under 49 C.F.R., Subtitle B, Chapter I, Subchapter C.

(3)  " Intrastate commercial vehicle" means a motor vehicle, vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer used or maintained for business, compensation, or profit to transport passengers or property on a highway only within the boundaries of this state if the commercial vehicle:

(a)  has a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating or gross combination weight rating of 10,001 or more pounds;

(b)  is designed to transport more than 15 passengers, including the driver; or

(c)  is used in the transportation of hazardous materials and is required to be placarded in accordance with 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F.

(4)  "Motor carrier" means a person engaged in or transacting the business of transporting passengers, freight, merchandise, or other property by a commercial vehicle on a highway within this state and includes a tow truck business.

(5)  "Tow truck" means a motor vehicle constructed, designed, altered, or equipped primarily for the purpose of towing or removing damaged, disabled, abandoned, seized, or impounded vehicles from a highway or other place by means of a crane, hoist, tow bar, tow line, dolly, tilt bed, or other means.

(6)  "Tow truck service" means the functions and any ancillary operations associated with recovering, removing, and towing a vehicle and its load from a highway or other place by means of a tow truck.

(7)  "Transportation" means the actual movement of property or passengers by motor vehicle, including loading, unloading, and any ancillary service provided by the motor carrier in connection with movement by motor vehicle, which is performed by or on behalf of the motor carrier, its employees or agents, or under the authority of the motor carrier, its employees or agents, or under the apparent authority and with the knowledge of the motor carrier.

