72-9-201.   Motor Carrier Advisory Board created -- Appointment -- Terms -- Meetings -- Per diem and expenses -- Duties.

(1)  There is created within the department the Motor Carrier Advisory Board consisting of five members appointed by the governor.

(2)  Each member of the board shall:

(a)  represent experience and expertise in the areas of motor carrier transportation, commerce, agriculture, economics, shipping, or highway safety;

(b)  be selected at large on a nonpartisan basis; and

(c)  have been a legal resident of the state for at least one year immediately preceding the date of appointment.

(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current board members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.

(b) The governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately half of the board is appointed every two years.

(c)  A member shall serve from the date of appointment until a replacement is appointed.

(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term beginning the day following the expiration of the preceding term.

(5)  The board shall elect its own chair and vice chair at the first regular meeting of each calendar year.

(6)  The board shall meet at least quarterly or as needed when called by the chair.

(7)  Any three voting members constitute a quorum for the transaction of business that comes before the board.

(8)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(9)  The board shall advise the department and the commission on interpretation, adoption, and implementation of this chapter and other motor carrier related issues.

(10)  The department shall provide staff support to the board.



Amended by Chapter 286, 2010 General Session

