72-9-501.   Construction, operation, and maintenance of ports-of-entry by
the department -- Function of ports-of-entry -- Checking and citation powers
of port-of-entry agents.
(1) (a)  The department shall construct ports-of-entry for the purpose of
checking motor carriers, drivers, vehicles, and vehicle loads for compliance
with state and federal laws including laws relating to:
(i)  driver qualifications;
(ii)  Title 53, Chapter 3, Part 4, Uniform Commercial Driver License Act;
(iii)  vehicle registration;
(iv)  fuel tax payment;
(v)  vehicle size, weight, and load;
(vi)  security or insurance;
(vii)  this chapter;
(viii)  hazardous material as defined under 49 U.S.C. 5102;
(ix)  livestock transportation; and
(x)  safety.
(b)  The ports-of-entry shall be located on state highways at sites determined
by the department.
(2) (a)  The ports-of-entry shall be operated and maintained by the
department.
(b)  A port-of-entry agent or a peace officer may check, inspect, or test
drivers, vehicles, and vehicle loads for compliance with state and federal
laws specified in Subsection (1).
(3) (a)  A port-of-entry agent or a peace officer, in whose presence an
offense described in this section is committed, may:
(i)  issue and deliver a misdemeanor or infraction citation under Section
77-7-18;
(ii)  request and administer chemical tests to determine blood alcohol
concentration in compliance with Section 41-6a-515;
(iii)  place a driver out-of-service in accordance with Section 53-3-417; and
(iv)  serve a driver with notice of the Driver License Division of the
Department of Public Safety's intention to disqualify the driver's privilege
to drive a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with Section 53-3-418.
(b)  This section does not grant actual arrest powers as defined in Section
77-7-1 to a port-of-entry agent who is not a peace officer or special function
officer designated under Title 53, Chapter 13, Peace Officer Classifications.
(4) (a)  A port-of-entry agent, a peace officer, or the Division of Wildlife
Resources may inspect, detain, or quarantine a conveyance or equipment in
accordance with Sections 23-27-301 and 23-27-302.
(b)  The department is not responsible for decontaminating a conveyance or
equipment detained or quarantined.
(c)  The Division of Wildlife Resources may decontaminate, as defined in
Section 23-27-102, a conveyance or equipment at the port-of-entry if
authorized by the department.
