11-36-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Building permit fee" means the fees charged to enforce the uniform codes
adopted pursuant to Title 58, Chapter 56, Utah Uniform Building Standards Act,
that are not greater than the fees indicated in the appendix to the
International Building Code.
(2)  "Capital facilities plan" means the plan required by Section 11-36-201.
(3)  "Charter school" includes:
(a)  an operating charter school;
(b)  an applicant for a charter school whose application has been approved by
a chartering entity as provided in Title 53A, Chapter 1a, Part 5, The Utah
Charter Schools Act; and
(c)  an entity that is working on behalf of a charter school or approved
charter applicant to develop or construct a charter school building.
(4)  "Development activity" means any construction or expansion of a building,
structure, or use, any change in use of a building or structure, or any
changes in the use of land that creates additional demand and need for public
facilities.
(5)  "Development approval" means:
(a)  except as provided in Subsection (5)(b), any written authorization from a
local political subdivision that authorizes the commencement of development
activity; or
(b)  development activity, for a public entity that may develop without
written authorization from a local political subdivision.
(6)  "Enactment" means:
(a)  a municipal ordinance, for a municipality;
(b)  a county ordinance, for a county; and
(c)  a governing board resolution, for a local district, special service
district, or private entity.
(7)  "Hookup fee" means a fee for the installation and inspection of any pipe,
line, meter, or appurtenance to connect to a gas, water, sewer, storm water,
power, or other utility system of a municipality, county, local district,
special service district, or private entity.
(8) (a)  "Impact fee" means a payment of money imposed upon new development
activity as a condition of development approval to mitigate the impact of the
new development on public facilities.
(b)  "Impact fee" does not mean a tax, a special assessment, a building permit
fee, a hookup fee, a fee for project improvements, or other reasonable permit
or application fee.
(9) (a)  "Local political subdivision" means a county, a municipality, a local
district under Title 17B, Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Local
Districts, or a special service district under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special
Service District Act.
(b)  "Local political subdivision" does not mean a school district, whose
impact fee activity is governed by Section 53A-20-100.5.
(10)  "Private entity" means an entity with private ownership that provides
culinary water that is required to be used as a condition of development.
(11) (a)  "Project improvements" means site improvements and facilities that
are:
(i)  planned and designed to provide service for development resulting from a
development activity;
(ii)  necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of
development resulting from a development activity; and
(iii)  not identified or reimbursed as a system improvement.
(b)  "Project improvements" does not mean system improvements.
(12)  "Proportionate share" means the cost of public facility improvements
that are roughly proportionate and reasonably related to the service demands
and needs of any development activity.
(13)  "Public facilities" means only the following capital facilities that
have a life expectancy of 10 or more years and are owned or operated by or on
behalf of a local political subdivision or private entity:
(a)  water rights and water supply, treatment, and distribution facilities;
(b)  wastewater collection and treatment facilities;
(c)  storm water, drainage, and flood control facilities;
(d)  municipal power facilities;
(e)  roadway facilities;
(f)  parks, recreation facilities, open space, and trails; and
(g)  public safety facilities.
(14) (a)  "Public safety facility" means:
(i)  a building constructed or leased to house police, fire, or other public
safety entities; or
(ii)  a fire suppression vehicle costing in excess of $500,000.
(b)  "Public safety facility" does not mean a jail, prison, or other place of
involuntary incarceration.
(15) (a)  "Roadway facilities" means streets or roads that have been
designated on an officially adopted subdivision plat, roadway plan, or general
plan of a political subdivision, together with all necessary appurtenances.
(b)  "Roadway facilities" includes associated improvements to federal or state
roadways only when the associated improvements:
(i)  are necessitated by the new development; and
(ii)  are not funded by the state or federal government.
(c)  "Roadway facilities" does not mean federal or state roadways.
(16) (a)  "Service area" means a geographic area designated by a local
political subdivision on the basis of sound planning or engineering principles
in which a defined set of public facilities provide service within the area.
(b)  "Service area" may include the entire local political subdivision.
(17)  "Specified public agency" means:
(a)  the state;
(b)  a school district; or
(c)  a charter school.
(18) (a)  "System improvements" means:
(i)  existing public facilities that are:
(A)  identified in the impact fee analysis under Section 11-36-201; and
(B)  designed to provide services to service areas within the community at
large; and
(ii)  future public facilities identified in the impact fee analysis under
Section 11-36-201 that are intended to provide services to service areas
within the community at large.
(b)  "System improvements" does not mean project improvements.
