11-36-201.   Impact fees -- Analysis -- Capital facilities plan -- Notice of
plan -- Summary -- Exemptions.
(1) (a) (i)  Each local political subdivision and private entity shall comply
with the requirements of this chapter before establishing or modifying any
impact fee.
(ii)  A fee that meets the definition of impact fee under Section 11-36-102 is
an impact fee subject to this chapter, regardless of what term the local
political subdivision or private entity uses to refer to the fee.
(iii)  A local political subdivision or private entity may not avoid
application of this chapter to a fee that meets the definition of an impact
fee under Section 11-36-102 by referring to the fee by another name.
(b)  A local political subdivision may not:
(i)  establish any new impact fees that are not authorized by this chapter; or
(ii)  impose or charge any other fees as a condition of development approval
unless those fees are a reasonable charge for the service provided.
(c)  Each local political subdivision shall ensure that the impact fees comply
with the requirements of this chapter.
(d) (i)  Each local political subdivision and private entity shall ensure that
each impact fee collected on or after May 12, 2009 complies with the
provisions of this chapter, even if the impact fee was imposed but not paid
before May 12, 2009.
(ii)  Subsection (1)(d)(i) does not apply to an impact fee that was paid
before May 12, 2009.
(2) (a)  Before imposing impact fees, each local political subdivision and
private entity shall, except as provided in Subsection (2)(f), prepare a
capital facilities plan to determine the public facilities required to serve
development resulting from new development activity.
(b) (i)  As used in this Subsection (2)(b):
(A) (I)  "Affected entity" means each county, municipality, local district
under Title 17B, Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Local Districts,
special service district under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District
Act, school district, interlocal cooperation entity established under Chapter
13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, and specified public utility:
(Aa)  whose services or facilities are likely to require expansion or
significant modification because of the facilities proposed in the proposed
capital facilities plan; or
(Bb)  that has filed with the local political subdivision or private entity a
copy of the general or long-range plan of the county, municipality, local
district, special service district, school district, interlocal cooperation
entity, or specified public utility.
(II)  "Affected entity" does not include the local political subdivision or
private entity that is required under this Subsection (2) to provide notice.
(B)  "Specified public utility" means an electrical corporation, gas
corporation, or telephone corporation, as those terms are defined in Section
54-2-1.
(ii)  Before preparing or amending a capital facilities plan, each local
political subdivision and each private entity shall provide written notice, as
provided in this Subsection (2)(b), of its intent to prepare or amend a
capital facilities plan.
(iii)  Each notice under Subsection (2)(b)(ii) shall:
(A)  indicate that the local political subdivision or private entity intends
to prepare or amend a capital facilities plan;
(B)  describe or provide a map of the geographic area where the proposed
capital facilities will be located; and
(C)  subject to Subsection (2)(b)(iv), be posted on the Utah Public Notice
Website created under Section 63F-1-701.
(iv)  For a private entity required to post notice on the Utah Public Notice
Website under Subsection (2)(b)(iii):
(A)  the private entity shall give notice to the general purpose local
government in which the private entity's primary business office is located;
and
(B)  the general purpose local government described in Subsection
(2)(b)(iv)(A) shall post the notice on the Utah Public Notice Website.
(c)  The capital facilities plan shall identify:
(i)  demands placed upon existing public facilities by new development
activity; and
(ii)  the proposed means by which the local political subdivision will meet
those demands.
(d)  A municipality or county need not prepare a separate capital facilities
plan if the general plan required by Section 10-9a-401 or 17-27a-401,
respectively, contains the elements required by Subsection (2)(c).
(e) (i)  If a local political subdivision chooses to prepare an independent
capital facilities plan rather than include a capital facilities element in
the general plan, the local political subdivision shall before adopting or
amending the capital facilities plan:
(A)  give public notice of the plan or amendment according to Subsection
(2)(e)(ii)(A), (B), or (C), as the case may be, at least 10 days before the
date of the public hearing;
(B)  make a copy of the plan or amendment, together with a summary designed to
be understood by a lay person, available to the public;
(C)  place a copy of the plan or amendment and summary in each public library
within the local political subdivision; and
(D)  hold a public hearing to hear public comment on the plan or amendment.
(ii)  With respect to the public notice required under Subsection
(2)(e)(i)(A):
(A)  each municipality shall comply with the notice and hearing requirements
of, and, except as provided in Subsection 11-36-401(4)(f), receive the
protections of Sections 10-9a-205 and 10-9a-801 and Subsection 10-9a-502(2);
(B)  each county shall comply with the notice and hearing requirements of,
and, except as provided in Subsection 11-36-401(4)(f), receive the protections
of Sections 17-27a-205 and 17-27a-801 and Subsection 17-27a-502(2); and
(C)  each local district, special service district, and private entity shall
comply with the notice and hearing requirements of, and receive the
protections of, Section 17B-1-111.
(iii)  Nothing contained in this Subsection (2)(e) or in the subsections
referenced in Subsections (2)(e)(ii)(A) and (B) may be construed to require
involvement by a planning commission in the capital facilities planning
process.
(f) (i)  A local political subdivision with a population or serving a
population of less than 5,000 as of the last federal census need not comply
with the capital facilities plan requirements of this part, but shall ensure
that:
(A)  the impact fees that the local political subdivision imposes are based
upon a reasonable plan; and
(B)  each applicable notice required by this chapter is given.
(ii)  Subsection (2)(f)(i) does not apply to private entities.
(g) (i)  Subject to Subsection (2)(g)(iii), the plan shall include a public
facility for which an impact fee may be charged or required for a school
district or charter school if the local political subdivision is aware of the
planned location of the school district facility or charter school:
(A)  through the planning process; or
(B)  after receiving a written request from a school district or charter
school that the public facility be included in the plan.
(ii)  If necessary, the plan shall be amended to reflect a public facility
described in Subsection (2)(g)(i).
(iii) (A)  In accordance with Subsections 10-9a-305(4) and 17-27a-305(4), a
local political subdivision may not require a school district or charter
school to participate in the cost of any roadway or sidewalk.
(B)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(g)(iii)(A), if a school district or
charter school agrees to build a roadway or sidewalk, the roadway or sidewalk
shall be included in the plan.
(3)  In preparing the plan, each local political subdivision shall generally
consider all revenue sources, including impact fees and anticipated dedication
of system improvements, to finance the impacts on system improvements.
(4)  A local political subdivision or private entity may only impose impact
fees on development activities when its plan for financing system improvements
establishes that impact fees are necessary to achieve an equitable allocation
to the costs borne in the past and to be borne in the future, in comparison to
the benefits already received and yet to be received.
(5) (a)  Subject to the notice requirement of Subsection (5)(b), each local
political subdivision and private entity intending to impose an impact fee
shall prepare a written analysis of each impact fee that:
(i)  identifies the anticipated impact on or consumption of any existing
capacity of a public facility by the anticipated development activity;
(ii)  identifies the anticipated impact on system improvements required by the
anticipated development activity to maintain the established level of service
for each public facility;
(iii)  demonstrates how those anticipated impacts are reasonably related to
the anticipated development activity;
(iv)  estimates the proportionate share of:
(A)  the costs for existing capacity that will be recouped; and
(B)  the costs of impacts on system improvements that are reasonably related
to the new development activity; and
(v)  based upon those factors and the requirements of this chapter, identifies
how the impact fee was calculated.
(b) (i)  Before preparing or contracting to prepare the written analysis
required under Subsection (5)(a), each local political subdivision or private
entity shall, subject to Subsection (5)(b)(ii), post a public notice on the
Utah Public Notice Website created under Section 63F-1-701 indicating the
local political subdivision or private entity's intent to prepare or contract
to prepare a written analysis of an impact fee.
(ii)  For a private entity required to post notice on the Utah Public Notice
Website under Subsection (5)(b)(i):
(A)  the private entity shall give notice to the general purpose local
government in which the private entity's primary business office is located;
and
(B)  the general purpose local government described in Subsection
(5)(b)(ii)(A) shall post the notice on the Utah Public Notice Website.
(c)  In analyzing whether or not the proportionate share of the costs of
public facilities are reasonably related to the new development activity, the
local political subdivision or private entity, as the case may be, shall
identify, if applicable:
(i)  the cost of each existing public facility that has excess capacity to
serve the anticipated development resulting from the new development activity;
(ii)  the cost of system improvements for each public facility;
(iii)  other than impact fees, the manner of financing each public facility,
such as user charges, special assessments, bonded indebtedness, general taxes,
or federal grants;
(iv)  the relative extent to which development activity will contribute to
financing the excess capacity of and system improvements for each existing
public facility, by such means as user charges, special assessments, or
payment from the proceeds of general taxes;
(v)  the relative extent to which development activity will contribute to the
cost of existing public facilities and system improvements in the future;
(vi)  the extent to which the development activity is entitled to a credit
against impact fees because the development activity will dedicate system
improvements or public facilities that will offset the demand for system
improvements, inside or outside the proposed development;
(vii)  extraordinary costs, if any, in servicing the newly developed
properties; and
(viii)  the time-price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts
paid at different times.
(d)  Each local political subdivision and private entity that prepares a
written analysis under this Subsection (5) shall also prepare a summary of the
written analysis, designed to be understood by a lay person.
(6)  Each local political subdivision that adopts an impact fee enactment
under Section 11-36-202 on or after July 1, 2000 shall, at least 10 days
before adopting the enactment:
(a)  submit a copy of the written analysis required by Subsection (5)(a) and a
copy of the summary required by Subsection (5)(d) to each public library
within the local political subdivision; and
(b)  obtain a written certification from the person or entity that prepares
the written analysis which states as follows:
"I certify that the attached impact fee analysis:
1.  includes only the costs for qualifying public facilities that are:
a.  allowed under the Impact Fees Act; and
b.  projected to be incurred or encumbered within six years after each impact
fee is paid;
2.  contains no cost for operation and maintenance of public facilities;
3.  offsets costs with grants or other alternate sources of payment;
4.  does not include costs for qualifying public facilities that will raise
the level of service for the facilities, through impact fees, above the level
of service that is supported by existing residents; and
5.  complies in each and every relevant respect with the Impact Fees Act."
(7)  Nothing in this chapter may be construed to repeal or otherwise eliminate
any impact fee in effect on the effective date of this chapter that is pledged
as a source of revenues to pay bonded indebtedness that was incurred before
the effective date of this chapter.
