11-36-401.   Impact fees -- Challenges -- Appeals.
(1)  Any person or entity residing in or owning property within a service
area, and any organization, association, or corporation representing the
interests of persons or entities owning property within a service area, may
file a declaratory judgment action challenging the validity of the fee.
(2) (a)  Any person or entity required to pay an impact fee who believes the
fee does not meet the requirements of law may file a written request for
information with the local political subdivision who established the fee.
(b)  Within two weeks after the receipt of the request for information, the
local political subdivision shall provide the person or entity with the
written analysis required by Section 11-36-201, the capital facilities plan,
and with any other relevant information relating to the impact fee.
(3) (a)  Any local political subdivision may establish, by ordinance or
resolution, an administrative appeals procedure to consider and decide
challenges to impact fees.
(b)  If the local political subdivision establishes an administrative appeals
procedure, the local political subdivision shall ensure that the procedure
includes a requirement that the local political subdivision make its decision
no later than 30 days after the date the challenge to the impact fee is filed.
(4) (a)  In addition to the method of challenging an impact fee under
Subsection (1), a person or entity that has paid an impact fee that was
imposed by a local political subdivision may challenge:
(i)  if the impact fee enactment was adopted on or after July 1, 2000:
(A)  whether the local political subdivision complied with the notice
requirements of this chapter with respect to the imposition of the impact fee;
and
(B)  whether the local political subdivision complied with other procedural
requirements of this chapter for imposing the impact fee; and
(ii)  except as limited by Subsection (4)(a)(i), the impact fee.
(b)  A challenge under Subsection (4)(a) may not be initiated unless it is
initiated within:
(i)  for a challenge under Subsection (4)(a)(i)(A), 30 days after the person
or entity pays the impact fee;
(ii)  for a challenge under Subsection (4)(a)(i)(B), 180 days after the person
or entity pays the impact fee; or
(iii)  for a challenge under Subsection (4)(a)(ii), one year after the person
or entity pays the impact fee.
(c)  A challenge under Subsection (4)(a) is initiated by filing:
(i)  if the local political subdivision has established an administrative
appeals procedure under Subsection (3), the necessary document, under the
administrative appeals procedure, for initiating the administrative appeal;
(ii)  a request for arbitration as provided in Subsection 11-36-402(1); or
(iii)  an action in district court.
(d) (i)  The sole remedy for a challenge under Subsection (4)(a)(i)(A) is the
equitable remedy of requiring the local political subdivision to correct the
defective notice and repeat the process.
(ii)  The sole remedy for a challenge under Subsection (4)(a)(i)(B) is the
equitable remedy of requiring the local political subdivision to correct the
defective process.
(iii)  The sole remedy for a challenge under Subsection (4)(a)(ii) is a refund
of the difference between what the person or entity paid as an impact fee and
the correct impact fee amount.
(e)  Nothing in this Subsection (4) may be construed as requiring a person or
entity to exhaust administrative remedies with the local political subdivision
before filing an action in district court under this Subsection (4).
(f)  The protections given to a municipality under Section 10-9a-801 and to a
county under Section 17-27a-801 do not apply in a challenge under Subsection
(4)(a)(i)(A).
(5)  The judge may award reasonable attorneys' fees and costs to the
prevailing party in any action brought under this section.
(6)  Nothing in this chapter may be construed as restricting or limiting any
rights to challenge impact fees that were paid before the effective date of
this chapter.
