26-10b-102.   Department to award grants and contracts -- Applications.
(1) (a)  Within appropriations specified by the Legislature for this purpose,
the department may make grants to public and nonprofit entities for the cost
of operation of providing primary health care services to medically
underserved populations.
(b)  The department may, as funding permits, contract with community based
organizations for the purpose of developing culturally and linguistically
appropriate programs and services for low income and medically underserved
populations through a pilot program to accomplish one or more of the
following:
(i)  to educate individuals:
(A)  to use private and public health care coverage programs, products,
services, and resources in a timely, effective, and responsible manner;
(B)  to make prudent use of private and public health care resources;
(C)  to pursue preventive health care, health screenings, and disease
management; and
(D)  to locate health care programs and services;
(ii)  to assist individuals to develop:
(A)  personal health management;
(B)  self-sufficiency in daily care; and
(C)  life and disease management skills;
(iii)  to support translation of health materials and information;
(iv)  to facilitate an individual's access to primary care services and
providers, including mental health services; and
(v)  to measure and report empirical results of the pilot project.
(2) (a)  Grants by the department shall be awarded based on:
(i)  applications submitted to the department in the manner and form
prescribed by the department; and
(ii)  the criteria established in Section 26-10b-103.
(b)  The application for a grant under Subsection (2)(a) shall contain:
(i)  a requested award amount;
(ii)  a budget; and
(iii)  a narrative plan of the manner in which the applicant intends to
provide the primary health care services described in Subsection
26-10b-101(7).
(c)  A contract bid for a service under Subsection (1)(b):
(i)  shall be awarded in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 6, Utah
Procurement Code;
(ii)  must include the information described in Section 26-10b-103; and
(iii)  is subject to Subsection (3) of this section.
(3) (a)  An applicant under this chapter must demonstrate to the department
that the applicant will not deny services to a person because of the person's
inability to pay for the services.
(b)  Subsection (3)(a) does not preclude an applicant from seeking payment
from the person receiving services, a third party, or a government agency if:
(i)  the applicant is authorized to charge for the services; and
(ii)  the person, third party, or government agency is under legal obligation
to pay the charges.
(4)  The department shall maximize the use of federal matching funds received
for services under Subsection (1)(b) to fund additional contracts under
Subsection (1)(b).
