13-16-7.   Investigations and civil actions authorized -- Expenses --
Jurisdiction and venue.
(1) (a)  The attorney general may conduct investigations of violations of this
chapter and may issue civil investigative demands as provided in Subsections
76-10-917(1) through (7), and (9), stating the nature of the activities under
investigation constituting the alleged violation of this chapter and the
applicable provision of law and that any information provided in response to
the demand may be used in a civil proceeding.  If the attorney general has
reason to believe that a person has engaged in acts or practices that violate
Section 13-16-4, the attorney general may commence a civil action to enjoin
the acts or practices, seek civil penalties as provided in Subsection (1)(b),
and upon a proper showing, a temporary restraining order, preliminary
injunction, or permanent injunction shall issue without the necessity of a
bond.
(b)  Any person who violates Section 13-16-4 is liable to the state for a
civil penalty, assessed by a court, not to exceed $5,000 per day for each
business location where a violation occurred.
(2) (a)  Any person injured as a result of an act or practice that violates
Section 13-16-4 may bring a civil action for appropriate relief, including an
action for a declaratory judgment, injunctive relief, a treble award of actual
damages, and exemplary damages.
(b)  Any action under this Subsection (2) shall be brought within two years
after the alleged violation occurred.
(3)  The court, in making an award under Subsection (1) or (2), may award
court costs and a reasonable attorney's fee to the prevailing party, except
that the court may not award attorney's fees or court costs against the state,
a state agency, or a political subdivision of the state.
(4)  If the state, a state agency, or a political subdivision of the state
prevails in an action under this chapter, it is entitled to an award for
reasonable investigative expenses in addition to any other relief granted.
(5) (a)  The district courts of this state may hear and determine all cases
brought under this section.
(b)  Venue lies in any county where the defendant is doing business or in the
county where the plaintiff resides.
