73-10-4.   Powers and duties of board.

The board shall have the following powers and duties:

(1)  To authorize studies, investigations, and plans for the full development, and utilization and promotion of the water and power resources of the state, including preliminary surveys, stream gauging, examinations, tests, and other estimates either separately or in consultation with federal, state and other agencies.

(2)  To enter into contracts subject to the provisions of this act for the construction of conservation projects which in the opinion of the board will conserve and utilize for the best advantage of the people of this state the water and power resources of the state, including projects beyond the boundaries of the state of Utah located on interstate waters when the benefit of such projects accrues to the citizens of the state.

(3)  To sue and be sued in accordance with applicable law.

(4)  To supervise in cooperation with the governor and the executive director of natural resources all matters affecting interstate compact negotiations and the administration of such compacts affecting the waters of interstate rivers, lakes and other sources of supply.

(5)  To contract with federal and other agencies and with the National Reclamation Association and to make studies, investigations and recommendations and do all other things on behalf of the state for any purpose which relates to the development, conservation, protection and control of the water and power resources of the state.

(6)  To consult and advise with the Utah Water Users' Association and other organized water users' associations in the state.

(7)  To consider and make recommendations on behalf of the state of Utah of reclamation projects or other water development projects for construction by any agency of the state or United States and in so doing recommend the order in which projects shall be undertaken.

(8)  Nothing contained herein shall be construed to impair or otherwise interfere with the authority of the state engineer granted by Title 73, except as herein specifically otherwise provided.

