73-10-23.   Loans for water systems -- Board of Water Resources authority --
Procedure.
(1)  The Board of Water Resources is authorized to make loans to cities,
towns, metropolitan water districts, water conservancy districts, improvement
districts, special improvement districts, or special service districts within
the state for the acquisition or construction of new or existing water systems
or the improvement or extension of those systems from funds appropriated for
the purpose of this chapter.
(2) (a)  Cities, towns, or districts which participate in this program shall
submit an application for funds to the Board of Water Resources.
(b)  The application may request a loan to cover all or part of the cost of an
eligible project.
(c)  Requests for loans shall be submitted in a form and shall include
information as the board prescribes.
(3) (a)  The board shall establish criteria for determining eligibility for
loans and shall determine appropriate priorities among projects.
(b)  Funds received from the repayment of loans shall be added to this special
fund and be available for additional loans under the administration of the
board.
(c)  In determining priorities for eligible projects, the board shall
consider:
(i)  probable growth of population due to actual or prospective economic
development in an area;
(ii)  possible additional sources of state and local revenue;
(iii)  opportunities for expanded employment;
(iv)  present or potential health hazards;
(v)  water systems which do not meet minimum state standards;
(vi)  cities, towns, or districts which have insufficient water to meet
current demands;
(vii)  feasibility and practicality of the project;
(viii)  per capita cost of the project;
(ix)  per capita income of the residents in the area;
(x)  the borrowing capacity of the city, town, or district and its ability to
sell bonds in the open market; and
(xi)  the availability of federal funds for the project.
(4) (a)  The board shall consult with the Governor's Advisory Council on
Community Affairs in the establishment of priorities but that advice is not
binding upon the board.
(b)  If an application is rejected, the board shall notify the applicant
stating the reasons for the rejection.
(5)  The Board of Water Resources shall review the plans and specifications
for the project prior to approval and may condition approval and the
availability of funds on assurances the board considers necessary to ensure
that the proceeds of the loan will be used to pay the cost of the project and
that the project will be completed.
(6)  Any loan shall specify the terms for repayment and may be evidenced by
general obligation bonds, revenue bonds, special assessment bonds, or other
bonds or obligations legally issued by the appropriate city, town,
metropolitan water district, water conservancy district, improvement district,
special improvement district, or special service district and purchased by the
board pursuant to the authority for the issuance that exists at the time of
the loan.
(7) (a)  Upon approval of an application, the board shall advise the applicant
and may provide funds as a loan to cover all or part of the costs of eligible
projects.
(b)  Costs of an eligible project may include all costs of acquisition and
construction as well as costs incurred for preliminary planning to determine
the economic and engineering feasibility of a proposed project, the
engineering, architectural, legal, fiscal, and economic investigations and
studies, surveys, designs, plans, working drawings, specifications,
procedures, and other action necessary to the project and its financing; the
cost of erection, building, acquisition, modification, improvement, or
extension of water system facilities and the inspection and supervision of the
construction of such facilities.
(8)  No loan shall include any project costs for which the applicant receives
federal financial assistance, other than federal loans which must be repaid by
the applicant.
