73-10-32.   Definitions -- Water conservation plan required.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Board" means the Board of Water Resources created under Section
73-10-1.5.
(b)  "Division" means the Division of Water Resources created under Section
73-10-18.
(c)  "Retail" means the level of distribution of culinary water that supplies
culinary water directly to the end user.
(d)  "Retail water provider" means an entity which:
(i)  supplies culinary water to end users; and
(ii)  has more than 500 service connections.
(e)  "Water conservancy district" means an entity formed under Title 17B,
Chapter 2a, Part 10, Water Conservancy District Act.
(f)  "Water conservation plan" means a written document that contains existing
and proposed water conservation measures describing what will be done by
retail water providers, water conservancy districts, and the end user of
culinary water to help conserve water and limit or reduce its use in the state
in terms of per capita consumption so that adequate supplies of water are
available for future needs.
(2) (a)  Each water conservation plan shall contain:
(i)  a clearly stated overall water use reduction goal and an implementation
plan for each of the water conservation measures it chooses to use, including
a timeline for action and an evaluation process to measure progress;
(ii)  a requirement that each water conservancy district and retail water
provider devote part of at least one regular meeting every five years of its
governing body to a discussion and formal adoption of the water conservation
plan, and allow public comment on it;
(iii)  a requirement that a notification procedure be implemented that
includes the delivery of the water conservation plan to the media and to the
governing body of each municipality and county served by the water conservancy
district or retail water provider; and
(iv)  a copy of the minutes of the meeting and the notification procedure
required in Subsections (2)(a)(ii) and (iii) which shall be added as an
appendix to the plan.
(b)  A water conservation plan may include information regarding:
(i)  the installation and use of water efficient fixtures and appliances,
including toilets, shower fixtures, and faucets;
(ii)  residential and commercial landscapes and irrigation that require less
water to maintain;
(iii)  more water efficient industrial and commercial processes involving the
use of water;
(iv)  water reuse systems, both potable and not potable;
(v)  distribution system leak repair;
(vi)  dissemination of public information regarding more efficient use of
water, including public education programs, customer water use audits, and
water saving demonstrations;
(vii)  water rate structures designed to encourage more efficient use of
water;
(viii)  statutes, ordinances, codes, or regulations designed to encourage more
efficient use of water by means such as water efficient fixtures and
landscapes;
(ix)  incentives to implement water efficient techniques, including rebates to
water users to encourage the implementation of more water efficient measures;
and
(x)  other measures designed to conserve water.
(c)  The Division of Water Resources may be contacted for information and
technical resources regarding measures listed in Subsections (2)(b)(i) through
(2)(b)(x).
(3) (a)  Before April 1, 1999, each water conservancy district and each retail
water provider shall:
(i) (A)  prepare and adopt a water conservation plan if one has not already
been adopted; or
(B)  if the district or provider has already adopted a water conservation
plan, review the existing water conservation plan to determine if it should be
amended and, if so, amend the water conservation plan; and
(ii)  file a copy of the water conservation plan or amended water conservation
plan with the division.
(b)  Before adopting or amending a water conservation plan, each water
conservancy district or retail water provider shall hold a public hearing with
reasonable, advance public notice.
(4) (a)  The board shall:
(i)  provide guidelines and technical resources to retail water providers and
water conservancy districts to prepare and implement water conservation plans;
(ii)  investigate alternative measures designed to conserve water; and
(iii)  report regarding its compliance with the act and impressions of the
overall quality of the plans submitted to the Natural Resources, Agriculture,
and Environment Interim Committee of the Legislature at its meeting in
November 2004.
(b)  The board shall publish an annual report in a paper of state-wide
distribution specifying the retail water providers and water conservancy
districts that do not have a current water conservation plan on file with the
board at the end of the calendar year.
(5)  A water conservancy district or retail water provider may only receive
state funds for water development if they comply with the requirements of this
act.
(6)  Each water conservancy district and retail water provider specified under
Subsection (3)(a) shall:
(a)  update its water conservation plan no less frequently than every five
years; and
(b)  follow the procedures required under Subsection (3) when updating the
water conservation plan.
(7)  It is the intent of the Legislature that the water conservation plans,
amendments to existing water conservation plans, and the studies and report by
the board be handled within the existing budgets of the respective entities or
agencies.
