53C-1-202.   Board of trustees membership -- Nomination list --
Qualifications -- Terms -- Replacement -- Chair -- Quorum.
(1)  There is established the School and Institutional Trust Lands Board of
Trustees.
(2)  The board shall consist of seven members appointed on a nonpartisan basis
by the governor with the consent of the Senate for nonconsecutive six-year
terms.
(3) (a)  Of the initial appointments to the board, the governor shall appoint
one member to serve a six-year term, one member to serve a five-year term, one
member to serve a four-year term, one member to serve a three-year term, one
member to serve a two-year term, and one member to serve a one-year term.
(b)  All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of six years, except if a
vacancy occurs, the governor shall appoint a replacement, following the
procedures set forth in Subsections (2), (4), (5), and (6), to fill the
unexpired term.
(c)  Any member of the board who has served less than six years upon the
expiration of that member's term is eligible for a consecutive reappointment.
(d)  Neither the term provision in Subsection (2) nor Subsection (3) applies
to an appointment made under Subsection (5).
(4) (a)  The governor shall select six of the seven appointees to the board
from a nomination list of at least two candidates for each position or vacancy
submitted pursuant to Section 53C-1-203.
(b)  The governor may request an additional nomination list of at least two
candidates from the nominating committee if the initial list of candidates for
a given position is unacceptable.
(c) (i)  If the governor fails to select an appointee within 60 days after
receipt of the initial list or within 60 days after the receipt of an
additional list, the nominating committee shall make an interim appointment by
majority vote.
(ii)  The interim appointee shall serve until the matter is resolved by the
committee and the governor or until replaced pursuant to this chapter.
(5) (a)  The governor may appoint one member without requiring a nomination
list.
(b)  The member appointed under Subsection (5)(a) serves at the pleasure of
the governor.
(6) (a)  Each board candidate shall possess outstanding professional
qualifications pertinent to the purposes and activities of the trust.
(b)  The board shall represent the following areas of expertise:
(i)  nonrenewable resource management or development;
(ii)  renewable resource management or development; and
(iii)  real estate.
(c)  Other qualifications which are pertinent for membership to the board are
expertise in any of the following areas:
(i)  business;
(ii)  investment banking;
(iii)  finance;
(iv)  trust administration;
(v)  asset management; and
(vi)  the practice of law in any of the areas referred to in Subsections
(6)(b) and (6)(c)(i) through (v).
(7)  The board of trustees shall select a chair from its membership.
(8)  Before assuming a position on the board, each member shall take an oath
of office.
(9)  Four members of the board constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(10)  The governor or five board members may, for cause, remove a member of
the board.
(11)  An aggrieved party to a final action by the board may obtain judicial
review of that action under Sections 63G-4-402 and 63G-4-403.
