53C-1-203.   Board of trustees nominating committee -- Composition --
Responsibilities -- Per diem and expenses.
(1)  There is established an 11 member board of trustees nominating committee.
(2) (a)  The State Board of Education shall appoint five members to the
nominating committee from different geographical areas of the state.
(b)  The governor shall appoint five members to the nominating committee as
follows:
(i)  one individual from a nomination list of at least two names of
individuals knowledgeable about institutional trust lands submitted by the
University of Utah and Utah State University on an alternating basis every
four years;
(ii)  one individual from a nomination list of at least two names submitted by
the livestock industry;
(iii)  one individual from a nomination list of at least two names submitted
by the Utah Petroleum Association;
(iv)  one individual from a nomination list of at least two names submitted by
the Utah Mining Association; and
(v)  one individual from a nomination list of at least two names submitted by
the executive director of the Department of Natural Resources after
consultation with statewide wildlife and conservation organizations.
(c)  The president of the Utah Association of Counties shall designate the
chair of the Public Lands Steering Committee, who must be an elected county
commissioner or councilor, to serve as the eleventh member of the nominating
committee.
(3) (a) Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), each member shall serve a
four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the state board
and the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust
the length of terms to ensure that the terms of committee members are
staggered so that approximately half of the committee is appointed every two
years.
(c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(4)  The nominating committee shall select a chair from its membership by
majority vote.
(5) (a)  The nominating committee shall nominate at least two candidates for
each position or vacancy which occurs on the board of trustees except for the
governor's appointee under Subsection 53C-1-202(5).
(b)  The nominations shall be by majority vote of the committee.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Higher education members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties from
the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Higher education members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
