53B-21-110.   Refunding bonds -- Issuance -- Proceeds -- Limitations.
(1)  Bonds may be issued under this chapter for the purpose of refunding any
bonds previously issued under authority of this chapter, if the bonds to be
refunded are due or callable, redeemable, or repurchasable by their terms on
or prior to the date that the refunding bonds are issued or will become due or
callable, redeemable, or repurchasable by their terms within ten years
thereafter or if the bonds to be refunded, even though not becoming due,
callable, redeemable, or repurchasable within this period, are voluntarily
surrendered by the bondholders for cancellation at the time of the issuance of
the refunding bonds.
(2)  These refunding bonds shall have such details, bear such rate of
interest, and be otherwise issued and secured as provided by the board
authorizing the issuance of the bonds and as otherwise provided in this
chapter.  However, the changes in the security and revenues pledged to the
payment of the bonds may be made by the board as may be provided by it in the
proceedings authorizing the bonds, but in no event shall the refunding bonds
ever be secured by revenues not authorized by this chapter to be pledged to
the payment of bonds issued for other than refunding purposes.
(3)  Refunding bonds issued under this chapter may be exchanged for a like
principal amount of the bonds to be refunded, may be sold in the manner
provided in this chapter for the sale of other bonds, or may be exchanged in
part and sold in part.  If sold, the proceeds of the sale not required for the
payment of expenses may be invested in United States Government obligations or
in obligations unconditionally guaranteed by the United States of America in a
manner as may be provided in the authorizing resolution, so long as these
investments will mature with interest so as to provide funds to pay when due,
or called for redemption, the bonds to be refunded together with interest and
redemption premiums, if any.
(4)  The proceeds or obligations shall, and other funds legally available to
the board for such purposes may, be deposited in trust with an FDIC insured
bank doing business in Utah, or its successor, to be held for the payment and
redemption of bonds to be refunded.
(5)  The deposit and any reinvestment shall be held in trust by the escrow
agent for the payment of bonds with interest and redemption premiums, if any,
on maturity or upon an available redemption date or upon an earlier voluntary
surrender with the consent of the board.
(6)  No refunding bonds may be issued under this section in a principal amount
in excess of the principal amount of the bonds to be refunded nor may any
bonds not maturing or callable for redemption under their terms as provided in
this section be refunded without the consent of the holders of the bonds.
Refunding bonds authorized and issued under this section may in the discretion
of the board be combined with other bonds to be authorized and issued under
this chapter, and a single issue of bonds may be authorized, part for
improvement and part for refunding purposes.
