31A-21-105.   Representations, warranties, and conditions.
(1) (a)  No statement, representation, or warranty made by any person
representing the insurer in the negotiation for an individual or franchise
insurance contract affects the insurer's obligations under the policy unless
it is stated in the policy or in a written application signed by the
applicant.  No person, except the applicant or another by his written consent,
may alter the application, except for administrative purposes in a way which
is clearly not ascribable to the applicant.
(b)  No statement, representation, or warranty made by or on behalf of a
particular certificate holder under a group policy affects the insurer's
obligations under the certificate unless it is stated in the certificate or in
a written document signed by the certificate holder, and a copy of it is
supplied to the certificate holder.
(c)  The policyholder, his assignee, the loss payee or mortgagee or lienholder
under property insurance, and any person whose life or health is insured under
a policy may request, in writing, from the company a copy of the application,
if he did not receive the policy or a copy of it, or if the policy has been
reinstated or renewed without the attachment of a copy of the original
application.  If the insurer does not deliver or mail a copy as requested
within 30 days after receipt of the request by the insurer or its agent, or in
the case of a group policy certificate holder, does not inform that person
within the same period how he may inspect the policy or a copy of it and
application or enrollment card or a copy of it during normal business hours at
a place reasonably convenient to the certificate holder, nothing in the
application or enrollment card affects the insurer's obligations under the
policy to the person making the request.  Each person whose life or health is
insured under a group policy has the same right to request a copy of any
document under Subsection (1)(b).
(2)  Except as provided in Subsection (5), no misrepresentation or breach of
an affirmative warranty affects the insurer's obligations under the policy
unless:
(a)  the insurer relies on it and it is either material or is made with intent
to deceive; or
(b)  the fact misrepresented or falsely warranted contributes to the loss.
(3)  No failure of a condition prior to the loss and no breach of a promissory
warranty affects the insurer's obligations under the policy unless it exists
at the time of the loss and either increases the risk at the time of the loss
or contributes to the loss.  This Subsection (3) does not apply to failure to
tender payment of premium.
(4)  Nondisclosure of information not requested by the insurer is not a
defense to an action against the insurer.  Failure to correct within a
reasonable time any representation that becomes incorrect because of changes
in circumstances is misrepresentation, not nondisclosure.
(5)  If after issuance of a policy the insurer acquires knowledge of
sufficient facts to constitute a general defense to all claims under the
policy, the defense is only available if the insurer notifies the insured
within 60 days after acquiring the knowledge of its intention to defend
against a claim if one should arise, or within 120 days if the insurer
considers it necessary to secure additional medical information and is
actively seeking the information at the end of the 60 days. The insurer and
insured may mutually agree to a policy rider in order to continue the policy
in force with exceptions or modifications.  For purposes of this Subsection
(5), an insurer has acquired knowledge only if the information alleged to give
rise to the knowledge was disclosed to the insurer or its agent in connection
with communications or investigations associated with the insurance policy
under which the subject claim arises.
(6) (a)  An insurer that offers coverage to a small employer group as required
by Pub. L. No. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1979, Sec. 2711(a), may not rescind a policy
or individual certificate holder based on application misrepresentation unless
the insurer would not have been required to issue the coverage in the absence
of the misrepresentation.
(b)  Subsection (6)(a) does not prevent an insurer from correcting rates if:
(i)  in the absence of misrepresentation a different rate would have been
required; and
(ii)  the corrected rates are in compliance with Section 31A-30-106.
(7)  No trivial or transitory breach of or noncompliance with any provision of
this chapter is a basis for avoiding an insurance contract.
