31A-21-305.   Cancellation upon request of a premium finance company.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Insurance premium finance company" means a person engaged in the
business of entering into premium finance agreements.
(b)  "Premium finance agreement" means an agreement by which an insured or
prospective insured promises to pay to an insurance premium finance company
the amount advanced or to be advanced under the agreement to an insurer or to
an insurance producer in payment of premiums on an insurance policy, together
with a service charge, an interest charge, or both.
(2)  When a premium finance agreement contains a power of attorney or other
authority enabling the insurance premium finance company to cancel any
insurance policy listed in the agreement, the following applies:
(a)  Not less than ten days' written notice of the intent of the insurance
premium finance company to order cancellation of the insurance policy, unless
the policyholder's default is cured prior to the date stated in the notice,
shall be delivered or mailed first-class to the policyholder.  The insurance
producer indicated on the premium finance agreement shall also be given the
same notice.
(b)  Pursuant to the power of attorney or other authority, evidence of which
is delivered to the insurer, the insurance premium finance company may order
cancellation on behalf of the insured.  This cancellation shall be effected by
mailing to the insurer a written notice stating when the cancellation is
effective.  The insurance policy shall be cancelled as if the notice of
cancellation had been given by the insured, but without requiring the return
of the insurance policy.  The insurance premium finance company shall also
send a copy of the same notice to the insured at his last known address and to
the insurance producer indicated on the premium finance agreement.
(c)  Where statutory, rule, or contractual restrictions provide that the
insurance policy may not be cancelled unless notice is given to a governmental
agency, mortgagee, or other third party, the insurer shall give the prescribed
notice on behalf of itself or the insured to that governmental agency,
mortgagee, or other third party within a reasonable time after the day it
receives the notice of cancellation from the premium finance company.  When
any statutory, rule, or contractual restrictions require the continuation of
insurance beyond the effective date of cancellation specified by the premium
finance company, the insurance is limited to the coverage required by those
restrictions and to the persons those restrictions are designed to protect.
(d)  Whenever a financed insurance policy is cancelled, the insurer shall
return any unearned premiums due under the insurance policy to the insurance
premium finance company for the account of the insured, and this action by the
insurer satisfies the insurer's obligations under the insurance policy which
relate to the return of unearned premiums. If the crediting of return premiums
to the account of the insured results in a surplus over the amount due from
the insured, the premium finance company shall refund that excess to the
insured if it exceeds $5.
(3)  No filing of the premium finance agreement or recording of a premium
finance transaction is necessary to perfect the validity of the agreement as a
secured transaction as against creditors, subsequent purchasers, pledgees,
encumbrancers, successors, or assigns.
