63I-4-201.   Privatization Policy Board -- Created -- Membership --
Operations -- Expenses.
(1) (a)  There is created a Privatization Policy Board composed of 17 members.
(b)  The governor shall appoint board members as follows:
(i)  two senators, one each from the majority and minority political parties,
from names recommended by the president of the Senate;
(ii)  two representatives, one each from the majority and minority political
parties, from names recommended by the speaker of the House of
Representatives;
(iii)  two members representing public employees, from names recommended by
the largest public employees' association;
(iv)  one member from state management;
(v) eight members from the private business community;
(vi)  one member representing the Utah League of Cities and Towns from names
recommended by the Utah League of Cities and Towns; and
(vii)  one member representing the Utah Association of Counties from names
recommended by the Utah Association of Counties.
(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), a board member:
(i)  appointed under Subsection (1)(b)(i) or (ii) shall serve a two-year term;
and
(ii)  appointed under Subsections (1)(b)(iii) through (vii) shall serve a
four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(c)  The governor shall on or before July 1, 2008 change the appointments to
the board to reflect the membership requirements of Subsection (1)(b).
(3) (a) A board member shall hold office until the board member's successor is
appointed and qualified.
(b)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, a replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(c) Nine members of the board constitute a quorum.
(d)  The vote of a majority of board members voting when a quorum is present
is necessary for the board to act.
(4) (a) The board shall select one of the members to serve as chair of the
board.
(b)  A chair shall serve as chair for a term of one-year, and may be selected
as chair for more than one term.
(5)  The chief procurement officer or the chief procurement officer's designee
shall staff the board.
(6)  The board shall meet:
(a)  at least quarterly; and
(b)  as necessary to conduct its business, as called by the chair.
(7) (a) (i) A member who is not a government employee may not receive
compensation or benefits for the member's services, but may receive per diem
and expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at
the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii) A member who is not a government employee may decline to receive per diem
and expenses for the member's service.
(b) (i) A state government officer and employee member who does not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from the member's agency for the member's
service may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the
member's official duties from the board at the rates established by the
Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii) A government officer and employee member may decline to receive per diem
and expenses for the member's service.
(c) (i)  A local government member who does not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that the member represents for the member's service
may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's
official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A local government member may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for the member's service.
(d)  Legislators on the board shall receive compensation and expenses as
provided by law and legislative rule.
