61-2f-203.   Licensing requirements.

(1) (a) (i)  The division shall determine whether an applicant with a criminal history qualifies for licensure.

(ii)  If the division, acting under Subsection (1)(a)(i), denies or restricts a license or places a license on probation, the applicant may petition the commission for de novo review of the application.

(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (5), the commission shall determine all other qualifications and requirements of an applicant for:

(i)  a principal broker license;

(ii)  an associate broker license; or

(iii)  a sales agent license.

(c)  The division, with the concurrence of the commission, shall require and pass upon proof necessary to determine the honesty, integrity, truthfulness, reputation, and competency of each applicant for an initial license or for renewal of an existing license.

(d) (i)  The division, with the concurrence of the commission, shall require an applicant for:

(A)  a sales agent license to complete an approved educational program consisting of the number of hours designated by rule made by the commission with the concurrence of the division, except that the rule may not require less than 120 hours; and

(B)  an associate broker or a principal broker license to complete an approved educational program consisting of the number of hours designated by rule made by the commission with the concurrence of the division, except that the rule may not require less than 120 hours.

(ii)  An hour required by this section means 50 minutes of instruction in each 60 minutes.

(iii)  The maximum number of program hours available to an individual is eight hours per day.

(e)  The division, with the concurrence of the commission, shall require the applicant to pass an examination approved by the commission covering:

(i)  the fundamentals of:

(A)  the English language;

(B)  arithmetic;

(C)  bookkeeping; and

(D)  real estate principles and practices;

(ii)  this chapter;

(iii)  the rules established by the commission; and

(iv)  any other aspect of Utah real estate license law considered appropriate.

(f) (i)  Three years' full-time experience as a sales agent or its equivalent is required before an applicant may apply for, and secure a principal broker or associate broker license in this state.

(ii)  The commission shall establish by rule, made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the criteria by which the commission will accept experience or special education in similar fields of business in lieu of the three years' experience.

(2) (a)  The division, with the concurrence of the commission, may require an applicant to furnish a sworn statement setting forth evidence satisfactory to the division of the applicant's reputation and competency as set forth by rule.

(b)  The division shall require an applicant to provide the applicant's Social Security number, which is a private record under Subsection 63G-2-302(1)(h).

(3) (a)  An individual who is not a resident of this state may be licensed in this state if the person complies with this chapter.

(b)  An individual who is not a resident of this state may be licensed as an associate broker or sales agent in this state by:

(i)  complying with this chapter; and

(ii)  being employed or engaged as an independent contractor by or on behalf of a principal broker who is licensed in this state, regardless of whether the principal broker is a resident of this state.

(4) (a)  The division and commission shall treat an application to be relicensed of an applicant whose real estate license is revoked as an original application.

(b)  In the case of an applicant for a new license as a principal broker or associate broker, the applicant is not entitled to credit for experience gained before the revocation of a real estate license.

(5) (a)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(b), the commission may delegate to the division the authority to:

(i)  review a class or category of applications for initial or renewed licenses;

(ii)  determine whether an applicant meets the licensing criteria in Subsection (1); and

(iii)  approve or deny a license application without concurrence by the commission.

(b) (i)  If the commission delegates to the division the authority to approve or deny an application without concurrence by the commission and the division denies an application for licensure, the applicant who is denied licensure may petition the commission for de novo review of the application.

(ii)  An applicant who is denied licensure pursuant to this Subsection (5) may seek agency review by the executive director only after the commission has reviewed the division's denial of the applicant's application.



Amended by Chapter 166, 2012 General Session

