61-2f-206.   Registration of entity or branch office -- Certification of
education providers and courses -- Specialized licenses.
(1) (a)  An entity may not engage in an activity described in Section
61-2f-201, unless it is registered with the division.
(b)  To register with the division under this Subsection (1), an entity shall
submit to the division:
(i)  an application in a form required by the division;
(ii)  evidence of an affiliation with a principal broker;
(iii)  evidence that the entity is registered and in good standing with the
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code; and
(iv)  a registration fee established by the commission with the concurrence of
the division under Section 63J-1-504.
(2) (a)  A principal broker shall register with the division each of the
principal broker's branch offices.
(b)  To register a branch office with the division under this Subsection (2),
a principal broker shall submit to the division:
(i)  an application in a form required by the division; and
(ii)  a registration fee established by the commission with the concurrence of
the division under Section 63J-1-504.
(3) (a)  In accordance with rules made by the commission, the division shall
certify:
(i)  a real estate school;
(ii)  a course provider; or
(iii)  an instructor.
(b)  In accordance with rules made by the commission, and with the concurrence
of the commission, the division shall certify a continuing education course
that is required under this section.
(4) (a)  Except as provided by rule, a principal broker may not be responsible
for more than one registered entity at the same time.
(b) (i)  In addition to issuing a principal broker license, associate broker
license, or sales agent license authorizing the performance of an act set
forth in Section 61-2f-201, the division may issue a specialized sales license
or specialized property management license with the scope of practice limited
to the specialty.
(ii)  An individual may hold a specialized license in addition to a license as
a principal broker, associate broker, or a sales agent.
(iii)  The commission may adopt rules pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act, for the administration of this Subsection (4),
including:
(A)  prelicensing and postlicensing education requirements;
(B)  examination requirements;
(C)  affiliation with real estate brokerages or property management companies;
and
(D)  other licensing procedures.
