63M-9-103.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Children and youth at risk" means:

(a)  persons, age 18 to 22, who have a disability; or

(b)  persons in the custody of the Division of Juvenile Justice Services within the Department of Human Services age 18 to 21; and

(c)  minors who may at times require appropriate and uniquely designed intervention to:

(i)  achieve literacy;

(ii)  advance through the schools;

(iii)  achieve commensurate with their ability; and

(iv)  participate in society in a meaningful way as competent, productive, caring, and responsible citizens.

(2)  "Council" means the Families, Agencies, and Communities Together State Council established under Section 63M-9-201.

(3)  "Local interagency council" means a council established under Section 63M-9-301.

(4)  "Steering committee" means the Families, Agencies, and Communities Together Steering Committee established under Section 63M-9-202.

(5) (a)  "Child and family centered service delivery system" means services provided to children and youth at risk and their families that may be delivered by teams and within a supportive community environment.

(b)  "Community" includes, when available, parents of children and youth at risk; directors of geographical service delivery areas designated by state agencies; local government elected officials; appointed county officials who are responsible for providing substance abuse, mental health, or public health services; educators; school districts; parent-teacher organizations; child and family advocacy groups; religious and community-based service organizations; individuals; and private sector entities who come together to develop, adopt, and administer a plan for a collaborative service delivery system for children and youth at risk.

(c)  "Community resources" means time, money, services, and other contributions provided by individuals, private sector entities, religious organizations, community-based service organizations, school districts, municipal governments, and county governments.

(d)  "Individualized and coordinated service plan" means a plan for services and supports that is comprehensive in its scope, is the product of a collaborative process between public and private service providers, and is specifically tailored to the unique needs of each child or youth served under this chapter.

(e)  "Performance monitoring system" means a process to regularly collect and analyze performance information including performance indicators and performance goals:

(i)  "performance indicators" means actual performance information regarding a program or activity; and

(ii)  "performance goals" means a target level of performance or an expected level of performance against which actual performance is measured.

(f)  "Plan for a collaborative service delivery system," "plan," or "plans" means a written document describing how a community proposes to deliver services and supports to children and youth at risk that effectively bring to bear all needed resources, including community resources, to enable them to achieve the outcomes described in Subsection (1)(c).



Amended by Chapter 366, 2011 General Session

