63M-9-202.   Steering committee -- Membership -- Duties.
(1)  As used in this section, "Council of Mental Health Programs" means a
council consisting of all of the directors of Utah public mental health
centers.
(2)  There is established a Families, Agencies, and Communities Together
Steering Committee.
(3)  The steering committee shall include at least 18 voting members as
follows:
(a)  the director of the Division of Health Care Financing within the
Department of Health;
(b)  a representative annually designated by the Council of Mental Health
Programs;
(c)  the director of the Division of Substance Abuse and Mental Health within
the Department of Human Services;
(d)  the director of the Division of Juvenile Justice Services within the
Department of Human Services;
(e)  the state director of special education;
(f)  the person responsible for programs for at risk students within the Utah
State Office of Education, if that person is not the state director of special
education;
(g)  the Juvenile Court Administrator;
(h)  a representative annually designated by substance abuse directors;
(i)  the director of the Division of Child and Family Services within the
Department of Human Services;
(j)  the director of family health services programs;
(k)  a representative annually designated by the Utah School Superintendents
Association;
(l)  a juvenile court judge designated by the presiding officer of the state
Judicial Council;
(m)  a representative annually designated by the local health officers;
(n)  a representative annually designated by the executive director of the
Department of Workforce Services;
(o)  three at-large members appointed by a majority of the committee to four-
year terms, who represent a statewide perspective on children and youth
issues; and
(p)  parent representatives appointed by members specified in Subsections
(3)(a) through (o).
(4)  Additional members may be selected by a majority of the committee to
serve as voting members for four-year terms.
(5) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (5)(b), as terms of current at-large
committee members expire, the committee shall appoint each new member or
reappointed member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (5)(a), the committee
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of at-large committee members are staggered so that
approximately half of the at-large committee members are appointed every two
years.
(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(7)  The members shall annually elect a chair and vice chair.
(8)  A majority of committee members are necessary to constitute a quorum and
to transact the business of the committee.
(9) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees may not receive
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(10)  The committee shall:
(a)  assist the council in fulfilling its duties set out in Section 63M-9-201;
(b)  monitor, solicit input for policy changes, and provide technical
assistance to local collaborative programs; and
(c)  report any formal recommendations to the council.
