63M-9-301.   Local interagency council -- Composition -- Duties.

(1)  Communities shall establish local interagency councils to improve service delivery to children and youth at risk, who are experiencing multiple problems and require services from more than one agency.

(2)  Each local interagency council shall consist of representatives from each agency serving children and youth who are at risk and their families within the community.

(a)  At a minimum the council shall consist of a family advocate and a local representative from the following:

(i)  child welfare;

(ii)  developmental disabilities;

(iii)  education;

(iv)  health;

(v)  juvenile justice;

(vi)  mental health;

(vii)  parents;

(viii)  substance abuse; and

(ix)  youth corrections.

(b)  The members of the local interagency council specified in Subsections (2)(a)(i) through (ix) shall select three parents from the local community to serve on the local interagency council, representative of families with children.

(3)  The local interagency council shall:

(a)  provide general staffing for individual at risk cases which require services from more than one agency;

(b)  provide services to meet the needs of individual cases or create new services to fill gaps in current service continuum;

(c)  develop an individualized and coordinated service plan for each child or youth at risk and the child or youth's family; and

(d)  establish a case management process to implement individualized and coordinated service plans.

(4)  Each local interagency council shall integrate into its operational procedures a method to involve parents in the staffing and service planning process.

(5) (a)  Each local interagency council shall operate in accordance with a written agreement entered into by the participating agencies.

(b)  The agreement shall include a provision that the participating agencies agree to implement the service recommendations in the individualized and coordinated service plan when not inconsistent with federal law.



Amended by Chapter 324, 2010 General Session

