63M-9-401.   Prevention and early intervention programs -- Applicants -- Selection process.

(1)  Within appropriations from the Legislature, the council shall implement prevention and early intervention programs for children and youth at risk.

(2)  The council shall select a limited number of participants for programs described in Subsection (1) through applications submitted by local entities.

(3) (a) (i)  The written consent of a parent or guardian is necessary for a child or youth at risk to participate in a program operated under Subsection (1).

(ii)  Programs for children who are enrolled in public schools shall also be subject to the disclosure and written consent provisions of Section 53A-13-301 and Section 53A-13-302.

(iii)  A parent or guardian may withdraw consent at any time.

(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (3)(a), a court may order a child's participation in a prevention and early intervention program.

(4)  The prevention and early intervention services provided under this section shall:

(a)  be comprehensive and collaborative;

(b)  seek to strengthen and preserve families;

(c)  be culturally sensitive, family focused, and community based;

(d)  protect children and youth at risk;

(e)  prevent abuse and neglect;

(f)  provide access to health care; and

(g)  prevent academic failure as defined in Subsection 78A-6-319(2)(a).

(5) (a)  A case management team shall be established at each participating site.

(b)  The case management team shall include at least the following:

(i)  parents who represent a community perspective on children and youth at risk;

(ii)  an educator at the school if the child receiving services is enrolled in a public school;

(iii)  the principal if the child receiving services is enrolled in a public school;

(iv)  a public health nurse;

(v)  a representative of the local mental health authority;

(vi)  a representative from the Division of Child and Family Services within the Department of Human Services;

(vii)  a representative from the Employment Development Division; and

(viii)  other persons considered appropriate by those persons specified in Subsections (5)(b)(i) through (vii), based on the needs of the child or youth and the child or youth's family.

(6) (a)  Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to waive the civil, constitutional, or parental rights of any child, youth, parent, or guardian.

(b)  The case management team shall recommend that children or youth be evaluated for at risk intervention.

