59-22-306.   Original participating manufacturer and related terms.
(1)  "Original Participating Manufacturer," which is referenced in Subsection
59-22-202(9)(a)(i), is defined in the Master Settlement Agreement as follows:
"Original Participating Manufacturer" means Brown & Williamson Tobacco
Corporation, Lorillard Tobacco Company, Phillip Morris Incorporated and R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Company, and the respective successors of each of the
foregoing.  Except as expressly providing in this Agreement, once an entity
becomes an Original Participating Manufacturer, such entity shall permanently
retain the status of Original Participating Manufacturer.
(2)  Subsection II(mm) of the Master Settlement Agreement, which is referenced
in Subsection 59-22-202(9)(a)(i), is the following definition of "relative
market share":
"Relative market share" means an original participating manufacturer's
respective share, expressed as a percentage, of the total number of individual
cigarettes shipped in or to the 50 United States, the District of Columbia and
Puerto Rico by all the original participating manufacturers during the
calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the payment at issue is
due, regardless of when such payment is made, as measured by the original
participating manufacturers' reports of shipments of cigarettes to Management
Science Associates, Inc., or a successor entity acceptable to both the
original participating manufacturers and a majority of those attorneys general
who are both the attorney general of a settling state and a member of the NAAG
executive committee at the time in question.  A cigarette shipped by more than
one participating manufacturer shall be deemed to have been shipped solely by
the first participating manufacturer to do so.  For purposes of the definition
and determination of "relative market share," 0.09 ounces of "roll your own"
tobacco shall constitute one individual cigarette.
(3)  Subsection II(z) of the Master Settlement Agreement, which is referenced
in Subsection 59-22-202(9)(a)(i), is the following definition of "market
share":
"Market share" means a tobacco product manufacturer's respective share,
expressed as a percentage, of the total number of individual cigarettes sold
in the 50 United States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico during the
applicable calendar year, as measured by excise taxes collected by the federal
government and, in the case of sales in Puerto Rico, arbitrios de cigarillos
collected by the Puerto Rico taxing authority.  For purposes of the definition
and determination of "market share" with respect to calculations under
subsection IX(i), 0.09 ounces of "roll your own" tobacco shall constitute one
individual cigarette; for purposes of the definition and determination of
"market share" with respect to all other calculations, 0.0325 ounces of "roll
your own" tobacco shall constitute one individual cigarette.
