23-19-11.   Age restriction -- Proof of hunter education required.
(1) A person born after December 31, 1965, may not purchase a hunting license
or permit unless proof is presented to the division or one of its authorized
wildlife license agents that the person has passed a division-approved hunter
education course offered by a state, province, or country.
(2)  For purposes of this section, "proof" means:
(a)  a certificate of completion of a hunter education course;
(b)  a preceding year's hunting license  or permit issued by a state,
province, or country with the applicant's hunter education number noted on the
hunting license or permit; or
(c)  verification of completion of a hunter education course pursuant to
Subsections (3) and (4).
(3)  If an applicant for a nonresident hunting license or permit is not able
to present a hunting license, permit, or a certificate of completion as
provided in Subsections (1) and (2), the division may contact another state,
province, or country to verify the completion of a hunter education course so
that a nonresident hunting license or permit may be issued.
(4)  If an applicant for a resident or nonresident hunting license or permit
has completed a hunter education course in Utah but is not able to present a
hunting license, permit, or a certificate of completion as provided in
Subsections (1) and (2), the division may research the division's hunter
education records to verify that the applicant has completed the hunter
education course.
(5) (a)  If an applicant for a resident or nonresident hunting license has
completed a hunter education course and is applying for a hunting permit or
license through the division's drawings, Internet site, or other electronic
means authorized by the division, the applicant's hunter education number and
the name of the state, province, or country that issued the number may
constitute proof of completion of a hunter education course under this
section.
(b)  The division may research the hunter education number to verify that the
applicant has completed a division-approved hunter education course.
(6)  Upon issuance of the hunting license or permit, the division shall
indicate the applicant's hunter education number on the face of the hunting
license or permit.
(7)  The division may charge a fee for any service provided in Subsection (3)
or (4).
