23-19-43.   Wildlife Habitat Account -- Contents -- Use of fund monies.
(1)  There is created a restricted account within the General Fund known as
the Wildlife Habitat Account.
(2)  The contents of the account shall consist of:
(a)  revenue from the sale of licenses, permits, stamps, certificates of
registration, and Wildlife Heritage certificates as provided in Section
23-19-47;
(b)  money donated to the division for a purpose specified in Subsection (6);
and
(c)  interest and earnings on account monies.
(3)  Revenue from the sale of licenses, permits, stamps, certificates of
registration, and Wildlife Heritage certificates that is deposited to the
account pursuant to Section 23-19-47 shall be used by the division, after
appropriation by the Legislature, as provided in Subsections (4) through (6).
(4) (a)  Each year up to $70,000 or 4% of the annual deposits to the account,
whichever amount is greater, shall be allocated for the development,
restoration, and preservation of wetlands that are beneficial to waterfowl.
(b)  Up to 20% of the money allocated to waterfowl projects may be
appropriated by the Legislature for use by a nonprofit conservation
organization for wetland development projects within the state that benefit
waterfowl.
(5) (a)  Each year up to $230,000 or 12% of the annual deposits to the
account, whichever amount is greater, shall be allocated to upland game
projects as follows:
(i)  the control of predators;
(ii)  the development, improvement, restoration, or maintenance of critical
habitat through the establishment of landowner incentives, cooperative
programs, or other means;
(iii)  the acquisition or preservation of critical habitat;
(iv)  landowner habitat education and assistance programs;
(v)  public access to private lands; and
(vi)  upland game transplant and reintroduction programs.
(b)  As used in this section "upland game" means pheasant, quail, chukar,
partridge, sage grouse, sharp-tailed grouse, Hungarian partridge, ruffed
grouse, blue grouse, ptarmigan, mourning dove, band-tailed pigeon, turkey,
cottontail rabbit, or snowshoe hare.
(c)  Monies allocated to upland game may not be used for the acquisition,
development, improvement, restoration, or maintenance of habitat within
commercial hunting areas.
(d)  No more than 5% of the monies allocated to upland game may be used for
landowner habitat education programs.
(e)  The monies allocated to upland game shall be used for programs and
activities relating to upland game species based generally upon the proportion
of average annual hunter participation for each species.
(f)  Projects for which free public access is assured shall receive first
priority for funding from monies allocated to upland game.
(g)  Projects for which public access is assured shall receive second priority
for funding from monies allocated to upland game.
(6)  The remaining money in the account shall be used for the following
purposes:
(a)  the enhancement, acquisition, preservation, protection, and management of
aquatic and terrestrial wildlife habitat; and
(b)  to improve access for fishing and hunting.
(7)  The division shall seek the advice and recommendations of the Habitat
Council, created by the division, regarding the expenditure of account monies.
(8)  Donations of money deposited into the account and interest earned on that
money shall be expended:
(a)  as directed by the donor; and
(b)  without being appropriated by the Legislature.
