57-8a-205.   Unpaid assessment -- Future lease payments.
(1)  When authorized in the declaration, bylaws, or rules adopted by the board
of directors, if the owner of a lot who is leasing the lot fails to pay an
assessment for more than 60 days after the assessment is due, the board of
directors, upon compliance with this section, may demand that the tenant pay
to the association all future lease payments due to the owner, beginning with
the next monthly or other periodic payment, until the amount due to the
association is paid.
(2) (a)  The manager or board of directors shall give the owner written
notice, in accordance with the declaration, bylaws, or association rules, of
its intent to demand full payment from the tenant under this section.
(b)  The notice described in Subsection (2)(a) shall:
(i)  provide notice to the tenant that full payment of the remaining lease
payments will begin with the next monthly or other periodic payment unless the
assessment is received within the time period provided in the declaration,
bylaws, or association rules;
(ii)  state the amount of the assessment due, including any interest or late
payment fee;
(iii)  state that any costs of collection, not to exceed $150, and other
assessments that become due may be added to the total amount due; and
(iv)  provide the requirements and rights described in this section.
(3) (a)  If the owner fails to pay the assessment due by the date specified in
the notice described in Subsection (2), the manager or board of directors may
deliver written notice to the tenant, in accordance with the declaration,
bylaws, or association rules, that demands future payments due to the owner be
paid to the association pursuant to Subsection (4).
(b)  The manager or board of directors shall mail a copy of the notice
described in this Subsection (3) to the owner.
(c)  The notice provided to the tenant under this Subsection (3) shall state:
(i)  that due to the owner's failure to pay the assessment within the time
period allowed, the owner has been notified of the intent of the board of
directors to collect all lease payments due to the association;
(ii)  that until notification by the association that the assessment due,
including any interest, collection cost, or late payment fee, has been paid,
the tenant shall pay to the association all future lease payments due to the
owner; and
(iii)  that payment by the tenant to the association in compliance with this
section will not constitute a default under the terms of the lease agreement.
(d)  If a tenant makes payments in compliance with this section, the owner may
not initiate an action against the tenant.
(4) (a)  All funds paid to the association pursuant to this section shall be:
(i)  deposited in a separate account; and
(ii)  disbursed to the association until the assessment due, together with any
cost of administration which may not exceed $25, is paid in full.
(b)  Any remaining balance shall be paid to the owner within five business
days after payment in full to the association.
(5) (a)  Within five business days after payment in full of the assessment,
including any interest or late payment fee, the manager or board of directors
shall notify the tenant in writing that future lease payments are no longer
due to the association.
(b)  The manager or board of directors shall mail a copy of the notification
described in Subsection (5)(a) to the unit owner.
