11-38-201.   Quality Growth Commission -- Term of office -- Vacancy -- Organization -- Expenses -- Staff.

(1) (a)  There is created a Quality Growth Commission consisting of:

(i)  the director of the Department of Natural Resources;

(ii)  the commissioner of the Department of Agriculture and Food;

(iii)  six elected officials at the local government level, three of whom may not be residents of a county of the first or second class; and

(iv)  five persons from the profit and nonprofit private sector, two of whom may not be residents of a county of the first or second class and no more than three of whom may be from the same political party and one of whom shall be from the residential construction industry, nominated by the Utah Home Builders Association, and one of whom shall be from the real estate industry, nominated by the Utah Association of Realtors.

(b) (i)  The director of the Department of Natural Resources and the commissioner of the Department of Agriculture and Food may not assume their positions on the commission until:

(A)  after May 1, 2005; and

(B)  the term of the respective predecessor in office, who is a state government level appointee, expires.

(ii)  The term of a commission member serving on May 1, 2005 as one of the six elected local officials or five private sector appointees may not be shortened because of application of the restriction under Subsections (1)(a)(iii) and (iv) on the number of appointees from counties of the first or second class.

(2) (a)  Each commission member appointed under Subsection (1)(a)(iii) or (iv) shall be appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate.

(b)  The governor shall select three of the six members under Subsection (1)(a)(iii) from a list of names provided by the Utah League of Cities and Towns, and shall select the remaining three from a list of names provided by the Utah Association of Counties.

(c)  Two of the persons appointed under Subsection (1) shall be from the agricultural community from a list of names provided by Utah farm organizations.

(3) (a)  The term of office of each member is four years, except that the governor shall appoint one of the persons at the state government level, three of the persons at the local government level, and two of the persons under Subsection (1)(a)(iv) to an initial two-year term.

(b)  No member of the commission may serve more than two consecutive four-year terms.

(4)  Each mid-term vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as an appointment under Subsection (2).

(5)  Commission members shall elect a chair from their number and establish rules for the organization and operation of the commission.

(6)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(7)  A member is not required to give bond for the performance of official duties.

(8)  Staff services to the commission:

(a)  shall be provided by OPB; and

(b)  may be provided by local entities through the Utah Association of Counties and the Utah League of Cities and Towns, with funds approved by the commission from those identified as available to local entities under Subsection 11-38-203(1)(a).

