77-38-4.   Right to be present, to be heard, and to file an amicus brief on appeal -- Control of disruptive acts or irrelevant statements -- Statements from persons in custody.

(1)  The victim of a crime, the representative of the victim, or both shall have the right:

(a)  to be present at the important criminal or juvenile justice hearings provided in Subsection 77-38-2(5);

(b)  to be heard at the important criminal or juvenile justice hearings provided in Subsections 77-38-2(5)(b), (c), (d), (f), and (g);

(c)  to submit a written statement in any action on appeal related to that crime;  and

(d)  upon request to the judge hearing the matter, to be present and heard at the initial appearance of the person suspected of committing the conduct or criminal offense against the victim on issues relating to whether to release a defendant or minor and, if so, under what conditions release may occur.

(2)  This chapter shall not confer any right to the victim of a crime to be heard:

(a)  at any criminal trial, including the sentencing phase of a capital trial under Section 76-3-207 or at any preliminary hearing, unless called as a witness; and

(b)  at any delinquency trial or at any preliminary hearing in a minor's case, unless called as a witness.

(3)  The right of a victim or representative of a victim to be present at trial is subject to Rule 615 of the Utah Rules of Evidence.

(4)  Nothing in this chapter shall deprive the court of the right to prevent or punish disruptive conduct nor give the victim of a crime the right to engage in disruptive conduct.

(5)  The court shall have the right to limit any victim's statement to matters that are relevant to the proceeding.

(6)  In all cases where the number of victims exceeds five, the court may limit the in-court oral statements it receives from victims in its discretion to a few representative statements.

(7)  Except as otherwise provided in this section, a victim's right to be heard may be exercised at the victim's discretion in any appropriate fashion, including an oral, written, audiotaped, or videotaped statement or direct or indirect information that has been provided to be included in any presentence report.

(8)  If the victim of a crime is a person who is in custody as a pretrial detainee, as a prisoner following conviction for an offense, or as a juvenile who has committed an act that would be an offense if committed by an adult, or who is in custody for mental or psychological treatment, the right to be heard under this chapter shall be exercised by submitting a written statement to the court.

(9)  The court may exclude any oral statement from a victim on the grounds of the victim's incompetency as provided in Rule 601(a) of Utah Rules of Evidence.

(10)  Except in juvenile court cases, the Constitution may not be construed as limiting the existing rights of the prosecution to introduce evidence in support of a capital sentence.



Amended by Chapter 28, 2011 General Session

