77-38-11.   Enforcement -- Appellate review -- No right to money damages.
(1)  If a person acting under color of state law willfully or wantonly fails
to perform duties so that the rights in this chapter are not provided, an
action for injunctive relief, including prospective injunctive relief, may be
brought against the individual and the governmental entity that employs the
individual.
(2)  The victim of a crime or representative of a victim of a crime, including
any Victims' Rights Committee as defined in Section 77-37-5 may:
(a)  bring an action for declaratory relief or for a writ of mandamus defining
or enforcing the rights of victims and the obligations of government entities
under this chapter;
(b)  petition to file an amicus brief in any court in any case affecting crime
victims; and
(c)  after giving notice to the prosecution and the defense, seek an
appropriate remedy for a violation of a victim's right from the judge assigned
to the case involving the issue as provided in Section 77-38-11.
(3) (a)  Upon a showing that the victim has not unduly delayed in seeking to
protect the victim's right, and after hearing from the prosecution and the
defense, the judge shall determine whether a right of the victim has been
violated.
(b)  If the judge determines that a victim's right has been violated, the
judge shall proceed to determine the appropriate remedy for the violation of
the victim's right by hearing from the victim and the parties, considering all
factors relevant to the issue, and then awarding an appropriate remedy to the
victim.  The court shall reconsider any judicial decision or judgment affected
by a violation of the victim's right and determine whether, upon affording the
victim the right and further hearing from the prosecution and the defense, the
decision or judgment would have been different.  If the court's decision or
judgment would have been different, the court shall enter the new different
decision or judgment as the appropriate remedy.  If necessary to protect the
victim's right, the new decision or judgment shall be entered nunc pro tunc to
the time the first decision or judgment was reached.  In no event shall the
appropriate remedy be a new trial, damages, attorney fees, or costs.
(c)  The appropriate remedy shall include only actions necessary to provide
the victim the right to which the victim was entitled and may include
reopening previously held proceedings.  Subject to Subsection (3)(d), the
court may reopen a sentence or a previously entered guilty or no contest plea
only if doing so would not preclude continued prosecution or sentencing the
defendant and would not otherwise permit the defendant to escape justice.  Any
remedy shall be tailored to provide the victim an appropriate remedy without
violating any constitutional right of the defendant.
(d)  If the court sets aside a previously entered plea of guilty or no
contest, and thereafter continued prosecution of the charge is held to be
prevented by the defendant's having been previously put in jeopardy, the order
setting aside the plea is void and the plea is reinstated as of the date of
its original entry.
(e)  The court may not award as a remedy the dismissal of any criminal charge.
(f)  The court may not award any remedy if the proceeding that the victim is
challenging occurred more than 90 days before the victim filed an action
alleging the violation of the right.
(4)  The failure to provide the rights in this chapter or Title 77, Chapter
37, Victims' Rights, shall not constitute cause for a judgment against the
state or any government entity, or any individual employed by the state or any
government entity, for monetary damages, attorney fees, or the costs of
exercising any rights under this chapter.
