26-4-12.   Order to exhume body -- Procedure.
(1)  In case of any death described in Section 26-4-7, when a body is buried
without an investigation by the medical examiner as to the cause and manner of
death, it shall be the duty of the medical examiner, upon being advised of the
fact, to notify the district attorney or county attorney having criminal
jurisdiction where the body is buried or death occurred. Upon notification,
the district attorney or county attorney having criminal jurisdiction may file
an action in the district court to obtain an order to exhume the body. A
district judge may order the body exhumed upon an ex parte hearing.
(2) (a)  A body shall not be exhumed until notice of the order has been served
upon the executor or administrator of the deceased's estate, or if no executor
or administrator has been appointed, upon the nearest heir of the deceased,
determined as if the deceased had died intestate. If the nearest heir of the
deceased cannot be located within the jurisdiction, then the next heir in
succession within the jurisdiction may be served.
(b)  The executor, administrator, or heir shall have 24 hours to notify the
issuing court of any objection to the order prior to the time the body is
exhumed. If no heirs can be located within the jurisdiction within 24 hours,
the facts shall be reported to the issuing court which may order that the body
be exhumed forthwith.
(c)  Notification to the executor, administrator, or heir shall specifically
state the nature of the action and the fact that objection must be filed with
the issuing court within 24 hours of the time of service.
(d)  In the event an heir files an objection, the court shall set hearing on
the matter at the earliest possible time and issue an order on the matter
immediately at the conclusion of the hearing. Upon the receipt of notice of
objection, the court shall immediately notify the county attorney who
requested the order, so that the interest of the state may be represented at
the hearing.
(e)  When there is reason to believe that death occurred in a manner described
in Section 26-4-7, the district attorney or county attorney having criminal
jurisdiction may make a motion that the court, upon ex parte hearing, order
the body exhumed forthwith and without notice. Upon a showing of exigent
circumstances the court may order the body exhumed forthwith and without
notice. In any event, upon motion of the district attorney or county attorney
having criminal jurisdiction and upon the personal appearance of the medical
examiner, the court for good cause may order the body exhumed forthwith and
without notice.
(3)  An order to exhume a body shall be directed to the medical examiner,
commanding him to cause the body to be exhumed, perform the required autopsy,
and properly cause the body to be reburied upon completion of the examination.
(4)  The examination shall be completed and the complete autopsy report shall
be made to the district attorney or county attorney having criminal
jurisdiction for any action the attorney considers appropriate.  The district
attorney or county attorney shall submit the return of the order to exhume
within 10 days in the manner prescribed by the issuing court.
