53A-6-103.    Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Accredited institution" means an institution meeting the requirements of
Section 53A-6-107.
(2) (a)  "Alternative preparation program" means preparation for licensure in
accordance with applicable law and rule through other than an approved
preparation program.
(b)  "Alternative preparation program" includes the competency-based licensing
program described in Section 53A-6-104.5.
(3)  "Ancillary requirement" means a requirement established by law or rule in
addition to completion of an approved preparation program or alternative
education program or establishment of eligibility under the NASDTEC Interstate
Contract, and may include any of the following:
(a)  minimum grade point average;
(b)  standardized testing or assessment;
(c)  mentoring;
(d)  recency of professional preparation or experience;
(e)  graduation from an accredited institution; or
(f)  evidence relating to moral, ethical, physical, or mental fitness.
(4)  "Approved preparation program" means a program for preparation of
educational personnel offered through an accredited institution in Utah or in
a state which is a party to a contract with Utah under the NASDTEC Interstate
Contract and which, at the time the program was completed by the applicant:
(a)  was approved by the governmental agency responsible for licensure of
educators in the state in which the program was provided;
(b)  satisfied requirements for licensure in the state in which the program
was provided;
(c)  required completion of a baccalaureate; and
(d)  included a supervised field experience.
(5)  "Board" means the Utah State Board of Education.
(6)  "Certificate" means a license issued by a governmental jurisdiction
outside the state.
(7)  "Core academic subjects" means English, reading or language arts,
mathematics, science, foreign languages, civics and government, economics,
arts, history, and geography.
(8)  "Educator" means:
(a)  a person who holds a license;
(b)  a teacher, counselor, administrator, librarian, or other person required,
under rules of the board, to hold a license; or
(c)  a person who is the subject of an allegation which has been received by
the board or UPPAC and was, at the time noted in the allegation, a license
holder or a person employed in a position requiring licensure.
(9) (a)  "Endorsement" means a stipulation appended to a license setting forth
the areas of practice to which the license applies.
(b)  An endorsement shall be issued upon completion of a competency-based
teacher preparation program from a regionally accredited university that meets
state content standards.
(10)  "License" means an authorization issued by the board which permits the
holder to serve in a professional capacity in the public schools.  The five
levels of licensure are:
(a)  "letter of authorization," which is:
(i)  a temporary license issued to a person who has not completed requirements
for a competency-based, or level 1, 2, or 3 license, such as:
(A)  a student teacher; or
(B)  a person participating in an alternative preparation program; or
(ii)  a license issued, pursuant to board rules, to a person who has achieved
eminence, or has outstanding qualifications, in a field taught in public
schools;
(b)  "competency-based license" which is issued to a teacher based on the
teacher's demonstrated teaching skills and abilities;
(c)  "level 1 license," which is a license issued upon completion of:
(i)  a competency-based teacher preparation program from a regionally
accredited university; or
(ii)  an approved preparation program or an alternative preparation program,
or pursuant to an agreement under the  NASDTEC Interstate Contract, to
candidates who have also met all ancillary requirements established by law or
rule;
(d)  "level 2 license," which is a license issued after satisfaction of all
requirements for a level 1 license as well as any additional requirements
established by law or rule relating to professional preparation or experience;
and
(e)  "level 3 license," which is a license issued to an educator who holds a
current Utah level 2 license and has also received, in the educator's field of
practice, National Board certification or a doctorate from an accredited
institution.
(11)  "NASDTEC" means the National Association of State Directors of Teacher
Education and Certification.
(12)  "NASDTEC Interstate Contract" means the contract implementing Title 53A,
Chapter 6, Part 2, Compact for Interstate Qualification of Educational
Personnel, which is administered through NASDTEC.
(13)  "National Board certification" means a current certificate issued by the
National Board for Professional Teaching Standards.
(14)  "Necessarily existent small school" means a school classified as a
necessarily existent small school in accordance with Section 53A-17a-109.
(15)  "Office" means the Utah State Office of Education.
(16)  "Rule" means an administrative rule adopted by the board under Title
63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(17)  "School" means a public or private entity which provides educational
services to a minor child.
(18)  "Small school district" means a school district with an enrollment of
less than 5,000 students.
(19)  "UPPAC" means the Utah Professional Practices Advisory Commission.
