53A-6-204.   Contracts for acceptance of educational personnel.
(1)  The designated state official of a party state may make one or more
contracts on behalf of his state with one or more other party states providing
for the acceptance of educational personnel.  Any such contract for the period
of its duration shall be applicable to and binding on the states whose
designated state officials enter into it, and the subdivisions of those
states, with the same force and effect as if incorporated in this compact.  A
designated state official may enter into a contract pursuant to this section
only with states in which he finds that there are programs of education,
certification standards or other acceptable qualifications that assure
preparation or qualification of educational personnel on a basis sufficiently
comparable, even though not identical to that prevailing in his own state.
(2)  Any such contract shall provide for:
(a)  its duration;
(b)  the criteria to be applied by an originating state in qualifying
educational personnel for acceptance by a receiving state;
(c)  such waivers, substitutions, and conditional acceptances as shall aid the
practical effectuation of the contract without sacrifice of basic educational
standards; and
(d)  any other necessary matters.
(3)  No contract made pursuant to this compact shall be for a term longer than
five years but any such contract may be renewed for like or lesser periods.
(4)  Any contract dealing with acceptance of educational personnel on the
basis of their having completed an educational program shall specify the
earliest date or dates on which originating state approval of the program or
programs involved can have occurred.  No contract made pursuant to this
compact shall require acceptance by a receiving state of any persons qualified
because of successful completion of a program prior to January 1, 1954.
(5)  The certification or other acceptance of a person who has been accepted
pursuant to the terms of a contract shall not be revoked or otherwise impaired
because the contract has expired or been terminated.  However, any certificate
or other qualifying document may be revoked or suspended on any ground which
would be sufficient for revocation or suspension of a certificate or other
qualifying document initially granted or approved in the receiving state.
(6)  A contract committee composed of the designated state officials of the
contracting states or their representatives shall keep the contract under
continuous review, study means of improving its administration, and report no
less frequently than once a year to the heads of the appropriate education
agencies of the contracting states.
