53A-6-802.   Paraeducator to Teacher Scholarship Program.
(1)  The Paraeducator to Teacher Scholarship Program is created to award
scholarships to paraeducators for education and training to become licensed
teachers.
(2)  The State Board of Education shall use money appropriated for the
Paraeducator to Teacher Scholarship Program to award scholarships of up to
$5,000 to paraeducators employed by school districts and charter schools who
are pursuing an associate's degree or bachelor's degree program to become a
licensed teacher.
(3)  A paraeducator is eligible to receive a scholarship if:
(a)  the paraeducator is employed by a school district or charter school;
(b)  is admitted to, or has made an application to, an associate's degree
program or bachelor's degree program that will prepare the paraeducator for
teacher licensure; and
(c)  the principal at the school where the paraeducator is employed has
nominated the paraeducator for a scholarship.
(4) (a)  The State Board of Education shall establish a committee to select
scholarship recipients from nominations submitted by school principals.
(b)  The committee shall include representatives of the State Board of
Education, State Board of Regents, and the general public, excluding school
district and charter school employees.
(c)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(i)  Section 63A-3-106;
(ii)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(iii)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106
and 63A-3-107.
(d)  The committee shall select scholarship recipients based on the following
criteria:
(i)  test scores, grades, or other evidence demonstrating the applicant's
ability to successfully complete a teacher education program; and
(ii)  the applicant's record of success as a paraeducator.
(5)  The maximum scholarship amount is $5,000.
(6)  Scholarship money may only be used to pay for tuition costs:
(a)  of:
(i)  an associate's degree program that fulfills credit requirements for the
first two years of a bachelor's degree program leading to teacher licensure;
or
(ii)  the first two years of a bachelor's degree program leading to teacher
licensure; and
(b)  at a higher education institution:
(i)  located in Utah; and
(ii)  accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities.
(7)  A scholarship recipient must be continuously employed as a paraeducator
by a school district or charter school while pursuing a degree using
scholarship money.
(8)  The State Board of Education shall make rules in accordance with this
section and Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to
administer the Paraeducator to Teacher Scholarship Program, including rules
establishing:
(a)  scholarship application procedures;
(b)  the number of, and qualifications for, committee members who select
scholarship recipients; and
(c)  procedures for distributing scholarship money.
