63G-12-203.   Coordination with other federal or state laws or programs.

(1)  To the extent feasible, the department shall coordinate the implementation of the program with other existing state and federal laws that relate to immigration and labor, including laws pertaining to obtaining the privilege to drive and to report citizenship status.

(2) (a)  If a permit holder is not issued a Social Security number, the State Tax Commission shall, by rule made in accordance with Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, provide a means for a person who receives services from a permit holder to withhold from compensation paid to the permit holder an amount to be determined by State Tax Commission rule that, as closely as possible, equals the income taxes that would be imposed by state law if the permit holder were an employee with a Social Security number.

(b)  If a waiver, exemption, or authorization described in Section 63G-12-202 provides for the issuance of a Social Security number to a permit holder, a person who receives services from a permit holder is required to withhold from compensation as provided in Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 4, Withholding of Tax.

(c)  The rules described in Subsection (2)(a) shall be substantially similar to Title 59, Chapter 10, Part 4, Withholding of Tax.

(d)  To the extent feasible and consistent with a waiver, exemption, or authority entered into under Section 63G-12-202, the State Tax Commission shall work with the applicable federal government agencies to ensure that the withholding provided for under this Subsection (2) is compatible with a federal process by which employment taxes are collected that would be imposed under federal law if a permit holder were an employee with a Social Security number.

(e) (i)  The State Tax Commission shall impose a fee on a person who hires a permit holder as an employee in accordance with this Subsection (2)(e):

(A)  if as of the program start date the federal government does not collect or provide for the withholding of federal employment taxes;

(B)  beginning the first day of the calendar quarter immediately following the program start date; and

(C)  ending the last day of the calendar quarter in which the federal government begins to collect or provide for the withholding of federal employment taxes.

(ii)  The State Tax Commission shall set the fee equal to the amount that, as closely as possible, equals the federal employment taxes that would be imposed by federal law if the permit holder were hired as an employee with a Social Security number.

(iii)  The State Tax Commission shall collect the fee in the same manner that it collects state income taxes withheld in accordance with this Subsection (2).

(iv)  The State Tax Commission may make rules in accordance with Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to establish the procedures for the collection of the fee.

(v)  The State Tax Commission shall deposit the fee into the restricted account.

(vi)  The State Tax Commission may have access to a record of the department made under Section 63G-12-210 to the extent necessary to impose a fee under this Subsection (2)(e).

(3)  The department shall facilitate the use in this state of other employer based work programs that meet the needs of Utah employers by using workers who are not working in Utah and who are not United States citizens.  Nothing in this part prevents a person from using an employer based work program described in this Subsection (3) that exists under the auspices of a foreign government in cooperation with the United States government.

(4)  A permit holder is not eligible for unemployment compensation.



Enacted by Chapter 18, 2011 General Session

