16-10a-640.   Distributions to shareholders.
(1)  A board of directors may authorize and the corporation may make
distributions to its shareholders subject to any restriction in the articles
of incorporation and the limitations in Subsection (3).
(2)  The bylaws or, in the absence of an applicable bylaw, the board of
directors may fix a future date as the record date for determining
shareholders entitled to a distribution, other than one involving a purchase,
redemption, or other acquisition of the corporation's shares. If a record date
is necessary but no future date is so fixed, the record date is the date the
board of directors authorizes the distribution.
(3)  No distribution may be made if, after giving it effect:
(a)  the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in
the usual course of business; or
(b)  the corporation's total assets would be less than the sum of its total
liabilities plus, unless the articles of incorporation permit otherwise, the
amount that would be needed, if the corporation were to be dissolved at the
time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution
of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the
distribution.
(4)  The board of directors may base a determination that a distribution is
not prohibited under Subsection (3) either on financial statements prepared on
the basis of accounting practices and principles that are reasonable in the
circumstances, including consolidated financial statements, or on a fair
valuation or other method that is reasonable in the circumstances.
(5)  Except as provided in Subsection (7), the effect of a distribution under
Subsection (3) is measured:
(a)  in the case of distribution by purchase, redemption, or other acquisition
of the corporation's shares, as of the earlier of:
(i)  the date money or other property is transferred or debt is incurred by
the corporation; or
(ii)  the date the shareholder ceases to be a shareholder with respect to the
acquired shares;
(b)  in the case of any other distribution of indebtedness, as of the date the
indebtedness is distributed; and
(c)  in all other cases, as of:
(i)  the date the distribution is authorized if the payment occurs within 120
days after the date of authorization; or
(ii)  the date the payment is made if it occurs more than 120 days after the
date of authorization.
(6)  A corporation's indebtedness to a shareholder incurred by reason of a
distribution made in accordance with this section, if the indebtedness is
unsecured, is on a parity with the corporation's indebtedness to its general,
unsecured creditors except to the extent subordinated by agreement.
(7)  Indebtedness of a corporation, including indebtedness issued as a
distribution, is not considered a liability for purposes of determinations
under Subsection (3) if its terms provide that payment of principal and
interest are made only if and to the extent that payment of a distribution to
shareholders could then be made under this section. If the indebtedness is
issued as a distribution, each payment of principal or interest on the
indebtedness is treated as a distribution, the effect of which is measured on
the date the payment is actually made.
