16-10a-705.   Notice of meeting.

(1)  A corporation shall give notice to shareholders of the date, time, and place of each annual and special shareholders' meeting no fewer than 10 nor more than 60 days before the meeting date.  Unless this chapter or the articles of incorporation require otherwise, the corporation is required to give notice only to shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting.

(2)  Unless this chapter or the articles of incorporation require otherwise, notice of an annual meeting need not include a description of the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.

(3)  Notice of a special meeting shall include a description of the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.

(4) (a)  Subject to Subsection (4)(b), unless the bylaws require otherwise, if an annual or special shareholders' meeting is adjourned to a different date, time, or place, notice need not be given of the new date, time, or place if the new date, time, or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment.

(b)  If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date for the adjourned meeting is or shall be fixed under Section 16-10a-707, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given pursuant to the requirements of this section to shareholders of record who are entitled to vote at the meeting.

(5) (a)  Notwithstanding a requirement that notice be given under any provision of this chapter, the articles of incorporation, or bylaws of any corporation, notice is not required to be given to any shareholder to whom:

(i)  a notice of two consecutive annual meetings, and all notices of meetings or of the taking of action by written consent without a meeting during the period between the two consecutive annual meetings, have been mailed, addressed to the shareholder at the shareholder's address as shown on the records of the corporation, and have been returned undeliverable; or

(ii)  at least two payments, if sent by first class mail, of dividends or interest on securities during a 12 month period, have been mailed, addressed to the shareholder at the shareholder's address as shown on the records of the corporation, and have been returned undeliverable.

(b)  Any action taken at a meeting held without notice to a shareholder to whom notice is excused under Subsection (5) has the same force and effect as if notice had been duly given.  If a shareholder to whom notice is excused under Subsection (5) delivers to the corporation a written notice setting forth the shareholder's current address, or if another address for the shareholder is otherwise made known to the corporation, the requirement that notice be given to the shareholder is reinstated. In the event that the action taken by the corporation requires the filing of a certificate under any provision of this chapter, the certificate need not state that notice was not given to shareholders to whom notice was not required pursuant to this Subsection (5).

