16-10a-1007.   Restated articles of incorporation.
(1)  A corporation's board of directors may restate its articles of
incorporation at any time with or without shareholder action.  A corporation's
incorporators may restate its articles of incorporation at any time if the
corporation has not issued shares and if no directors have been appointed.
(2)  The restatement may include one or more amendments to the articles of
incorporation.  If the restatement includes an amendment requiring shareholder
approval, it must be adopted as provided in Section 16-10a-1003.
(3)  If the board of directors submits a restatement for shareholder action,
the corporation shall give notice, in accordance with Section 16-10a-705, to
each shareholder entitled to vote on the restatement, of the proposed
shareholders' meeting at which the restatement will be voted upon. The notice
must state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to
consider the proposed restatement and the notice shall contain or be
accompanied by a copy of the restatement that identifies any amendment or
other change it would make in the articles of incorporation.
(4)  A corporation restating its articles of incorporation shall deliver to
the division for filing articles of restatement setting forth:
(a)  the name of the corporation;
(b)  the text of the restated articles of incorporation;
(c)  if the restatement contains an amendment to the articles of
incorporation, the information required to be set forth in articles of
amendment by Section 16-10a-1006;
(d)  if the restatement does not contain an amendment to the articles of
incorporation, a statement to that effect; and
(e)  if the restatement was adopted by the board of directors or incorporators
without shareholder action, a statement as to how the restatement was adopted
and that shareholder action was not required.
(5)  Upon filing by the division or at any later effective date determined
pursuant to Section 16-10a-123, restated articles of incorporation supersede
the original articles of incorporation and all prior amendments to them.
