16-10a-1023.   Bylaw provisions relating to election of directors.
(1)  A corporation that has shares listed on a national securities exchange or
regularly traded in a market maintained by one or more members of a national
or affiliated securities association may elect in its bylaws to be governed in
the election of directors by Subsection (2) unless the articles of
incorporation:
(a)  specifically prohibit the adoption of a bylaw electing to be governed by
this section;
(b)  alter the vote required by Subsection 16-10a-728(2); or
(c)  provide for cumulative voting.
(2)  A corporation may elect to be governed in the election of directors as
follows:
(a)  Each vote entitled to be cast may be voted for or against up to that
number of candidates that is equal to the number of directors to be elected,
or the shareholder may indicate abstention, but without cumulating the votes.
(b)  To be elected, a nominee must receive a plurality of the votes cast by
shareholders of shares entitled to vote in the election at a meeting at which
a quorum is present.
(c)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(b), a nominee who is elected but receives
more votes against than for election shall serve as a director for a term that
terminates on the earlier of:
(i)  90 days after the day on which the corporation certifies the voting
results; or
(ii)  the day on which a person is selected by the board of directors to fill
the office held by the director, which selection constitutes the filling of a
vacancy by the board for the purpose of Section 16-10a-810.
(d)  Subject to Subsection (2)(e), a nominee who is elected but receives more
votes against than for election may not serve as a director beyond the 90-day
period allowed by Subsection (2)(c).
(e)  The board of directors may select any qualified person to fill the office
held by a director who receives more votes against than for election.
(3) (a)  Subsection (2) does not apply to an election of a director by a
voting group if there are more candidates for election by the voting group
than the number of directors to be elected, one or more of whom are properly
proposed by shareholders.
(b)  The determination of the number of candidates under Subsection (3)(a) is
made:
(i)  at the expiration of a time fixed by the articles of incorporation or
bylaws for the advance notification of director candidates; or
(ii)  if there is no provision under Subsection (3)(b)(i), at a time fixed by
the board of directors not more than 14 days before notice is given of the
meeting at which the election is to occur.
(4)  A person may not be considered a candidate for the purpose of Subsection
(3) if the board of directors determines before the notice of meeting is given
that the person's candidacy does not create a bona fide election contest.
(5)  A bylaw electing to be governed by this section may be repealed:
(a)  by the shareholders if originally adopted by the shareholders, unless
otherwise provided by the bylaws; or
(b)  by the board of directors or the shareholders, if originally adopted by
the board of directors.
