16-10a-1104.   Merger of parent and subsidiary.

(1)  By complying with the provision of this section, a parent corporation owning at least 90% of the outstanding shares of each class of a subsidiary corporation may either merge the subsidiary into itself or merge itself into the subsidiary.

(2)  The board of directors of the parent shall adopt and its shareholders, if required by Subsection (3), shall approve a plan of merger that sets forth:

(a)  the names of the parent and subsidiary and the name of the surviving entity;

(b)  the terms and conditions of the merger;

(c)  the manner and basis of converting the shares of each corporation into shares, obligations, or other securities of the surviving or any other corporation or into money or other property in whole or part;

(d)  any amendments to the articles of incorporation of the surviving corporation to be effected by the merger; and

(e)  any other provisions relating to the merger as may be determined to be necessary or desirable.

(3)  A vote of the shareholders of the subsidiary is not required with respect to the merger. If the subsidiary will be the surviving corporation, the approval of the shareholders of the parent shall be sought in the manner provided in Subsections 16-10a-1103(1) through (6). If the parent will be the surviving corporation, no vote of its shareholders is required if all of the provisions of Subsection 16-10a-1103(7) are met with respect to the merger. If all the provisions are not met, the approval of the shareholders of the parent shall be sought in the manner provided in Subsections 16-10a-1103(1) through (6).

(4)  The parent shall mail a copy or summary of the plan of merger to each shareholder of the subsidiary (other than the parent) who does not waive this mailing requirement in writing.

(5)  The effective date of the merger may not be earlier than the date on which all shareholders of the subsidiary waived the mailing requirement of Subsection (4) or 10 days after the date the parent mailed a copy or summary of the plan of merger to each shareholder of the subsidiary who did not waive the mailing requirement.



Amended by Chapter 184, 1993 General Session

