16-10a-1434.   Election to purchase in lieu of dissolution.
(1)  In a proceeding under Subsection 16-10a-1430(2) to dissolve a corporation
that has no shares listed on a national securities exchange or regularly
traded in a market maintained by one or more members of a national or
affiliated securities association, the corporation may elect, or if it fails
to elect, one or more shareholders may elect to purchase all shares of the
corporation owned by the petitioning shareholder, at the fair value of the
shares, determined as provided in this section.  An election pursuant to this
section is irrevocable unless the court determines that it is equitable to set
aside or modify the election.
(2) (a)  An election to purchase pursuant to this section may be filed with
the court at any time within 90 days after the filing of the petition under
Subsection 16-10a-1430(2) or at any later time as the court in its discretion
may allow.  If the corporation files an election with the court within the
90-day period, or at any later time allowed by the court, to purchase all
shares of the corporation owned by the petitioning shareholder, the
corporation shall purchase the shares in the manner provided in this section.
(b)  If the corporation does not file an election with the court within the
time period, but an election to purchase all shares of the corporation owned
by the petitioning shareholder is filed by one or more shareholders within the
time period, the corporation shall, within ten days after the later of:
(i)  the end of the time period allowed for the filing of elections to
purchase under this section; or
(ii)  notification from the court of an election by shareholders to purchase
all shares of the corporation owned by the petitioning shareholder as provided
in this section, give written notice of the election to purchase to all
shareholders of the corporation, other than the petitioning shareholder.  The
notice shall state the name and number of shares owned by the petitioning
shareholder and the name and number of shares owned by each electing
shareholder.  The notice shall advise any recipients who have not participated
in the election of their right to join in the election to purchase shares in
accordance with this section, and of the date by which any notice of intent to
participate must be filed with the court.
(c)  Shareholders who wish to participate in the purchase of shares from the
petitioning shareholder must file notice of their intention to join in the
purchase by the electing shareholders, no later than 30 days after the
effective date of the corporation's notice of their right to join in the
election to purchase.
(d)  All shareholders who have filed with the court an election or notice of
their intention to participate in the election to purchase the shares of the
corporation owned by the petitioning shareholder thereby become irrevocably
obligated to participate in the purchase of shares from the petitioning
shareholders upon the terms and conditions of this section, unless the court
otherwise directs.
(e)  After an election has been filed by the corporation or one or more
shareholders, the proceedings under Subsection 16-10a-1430(2) may not be
discontinued or settled, nor may the petitioning shareholder sell or otherwise
dispose of any shares of the corporation, unless the court determines that it
would be equitable to the corporation and the shareholders, other than the
petitioning shareholders, to permit any discontinuance, settlement, sale, or
other disposition.
(3)  If, within 60 days after the earlier of:
(a)  the corporation's filing of an election to purchase all shares of the
corporation owned by the petitioning shareholder; or
(b)  the corporation's mailing of a notice to its shareholders of the filing
of an election by the shareholders to purchase all shares of the corporation
owned by the petitioning shareholder, the petitioning shareholder and electing
corporation or shareholders reach agreement as to the fair value and terms of
purchase of the petitioning shareholder's shares, the court shall enter an
order directing the purchase of petitioner's shares, upon the terms and
conditions agreed to by the parties.
(4)  If the parties are unable to reach an agreement as provided for in
Subsection (3), upon application of any party the court shall stay the
proceedings under Subsection 16-10a-1430(2) and determine the fair value of
the petitioning shareholder's shares as of the day before the date on which
the petition under Subsection 16-10a-1430(2) was filed or as of any other date
the court determines to be appropriate under the circumstances and based on
the factors the court determines to be appropriate.
(5) (a)  Upon determining the fair value of the shares of the corporation
owned by the petitioning shareholder, the court shall enter an order directing
the purchase of the shares upon terms and conditions the court determines to
be appropriate.  The terms and conditions may include payment of the purchase
price in installments, where necessary in the interests of equity, provision
for security to assure payment of the purchase price and any additional costs,
fees, and expenses awarded by the court, and an allocation of shares among
shareholders if the shares are to be purchased by shareholders.
(b)  In allocating the petitioning shareholders' shares among holders of
different classes of shares, the court shall attempt to preserve the existing
distribution of voting rights among holders of different share classes to the
extent practicable.  The court may direct that holders of a specific class or
classes shall not participate in the purchase.  The court may not require any
electing shareholder to purchase more of the shares of the corporation owned
by the petitioning shareholder than the number of shares that the purchasing
shareholder may have set forth in his election or notice of intent to
participate filed with the court as the maximum number of shares he is willing
to purchase.
(c)  Interest may be allowed at the rate and from the date determined by the
court to be equitable.  However, if the court finds that the refusal of the
petitioning shareholder to accept an offer of payment was arbitrary or
otherwise not in good faith, interest may not be allowed.
(d)  If the court finds that the petitioning shareholder had probable grounds
for relief under Subsection 16-10a-1430(2)(b) or (d), it may award to the
petitioning shareholder reasonable fees and expenses of counsel and experts
employed by the petitioning shareholder.
(6)  Upon entry of an order under Subsection (3) or (5), the court shall
dismiss the petition to dissolve the corporation under Section 16-10a-1430,
and the petitioning shareholder shall no longer have any rights or status as a
shareholder of the corporation, except the right to receive the amounts
awarded to him by the court.  The award is enforceable in the same manner as
any other judgment.
(7) (a)  The purchase ordered pursuant to Subsection (5) shall be made within
ten days after the date the order becomes final, unless before that time the
corporation files with the court a notice of its intention to adopt articles
of dissolution pursuant to Sections 16-10a-1402 and 16-10a-1403.  The articles
of dissolution must then be adopted and filed within 50 days after notice.
(b)  Upon filing of the articles of dissolution, the corporation is dissolved
in accordance with the provisions of Sections 16-10a-1405 through 16-10a-1408,
and the order entered pursuant to Subsection (5) is no longer of any force or
effect.  However, the court may award the petitioning shareholder reasonable
fees and expenses in accordance with the provisions of Subsection (5)(d).  The
petitioning shareholder may continue to pursue any claims previously asserted
on behalf of the corporation.
(8)  Any payment by the corporation pursuant to an order under Subsection (3)
or (5), other than an award of fees and expenses pursuant to Subsection
(5)(d), is subject to the provisions of Section 16-10a-640.
