16-10a-1507.   Registered name of foreign corporation.
(1)  A foreign corporation may register its corporate name as provided in this
section if the name would be available for use as a corporate name for a
domestic corporation under Section 16-10a-401.  If the foreign corporation's
corporate name would not be available for such use, then the foreign
corporation may register its corporate name modified by the addition of any of
the following words or abbreviations, if the modified name would be available
for use under Section 16-10a-401: "corporation," "incorporated," "company,"
"corp.," "inc.," or "co."
(2)  A foreign corporation registers its corporate name, or its corporate name
with any addition permitted by Subsection (1), by delivering to the division
for filing an application for registration:
(a)  setting forth its corporate name, the name to be registered which must
meet the requirements of Section 16-10a-401 that apply to domestic
corporations, the state or country and date of incorporation, and a brief
description of the nature of the business in which it is engaged; and
(b)  accompanied by a certificate of existence, or a document of similar
import from the state or country of incorporation as evidence that the foreign
corporation is in existence or has authority to transact business under the
laws of the state or country in which it is organized.
(3)  The name is registered for the applicant upon the effective date of the
application, and the initial registration is effective until the end of the
calendar year in which it became effective.
(4)  A foreign corporation that has in effect a registration of its corporate
name as permitted by Subsection (1) may renew the registration for the
following year by delivering to the division for filing a renewal application
for registration, which complies with the requirements of Subsection (2),
between October 1 and December 31 of the preceding year. When filed, the
renewal application for registration renews the registration for the following
calendar year.
(5)  A foreign corporation that has in effect registration of its corporate
name may apply for authority to transact business in this state under the
registered name in accordance with the procedure set forth in this part or it
may assign the registration to another foreign corporation by delivering to
the division for filing an assignment of the registration that states the
registered name, the name of the assigning foreign corporation, and the name
of the assignee, concurrently with the delivery to the division for filing of
the assignee's application for registration of the name.  The assignee's
application must meet the requirements of this part.
(6) (a)  A foreign corporation that has in effect registration of its
corporate name may terminate the registration at any time by delivering to the
division for filing a statement of termination setting forth the corporate
name and stating that the registration is terminated.
(b)  A registration automatically terminates upon the filing of an application
for authority to transact business in this state under the registered name.
(7)  The registration of a corporate name under Subsection (1) constitutes
authority by the division to file an application meeting the requirements of
this part for authority to transact business in this state under the
registered name, but the authorization is subject to the limitations
applicable to corporate names as set forth in Section 16-10a-403.
