16-10a-1607.   Annual report for division.

(1)  Each domestic corporation, and each foreign corporation authorized to transact business in this state, shall deliver to the division for filing an annual report on a form provided by the division that sets forth:

(a)  the corporate name of the domestic or foreign corporation and any assumed corporate name of the foreign corporation;

(b)  the jurisdiction under whose law it is incorporated;

(c)  the information required by Subsection 16-17-203(1);

(d)  the street address of its principal office, wherever located; and

(e)  the names of its principal officers.

(2)  The division shall deliver a copy of the prescribed form of annual report to each domestic corporation and each foreign corporation authorized to transact business in this state.

(3)  Information in the annual report shall be current as of the date the annual report is executed on behalf of the corporation.

(4)  The annual report of a domestic or foreign corporation shall be delivered annually to the division no later than the end of the second calendar month following the calendar month in which the report form is mailed by the division.  Proof to the satisfaction of the division that the corporation has mailed an annual report form is considered in compliance with this subsection.

(5)  If an annual report contains the information required by this section, the division shall file it.  If a report does not contain the information required by this section, the division shall promptly notify the reporting domestic or foreign corporation in writing and return the report to it for correction.  If the report was otherwise timely filed and is corrected to contain the information required by this section and delivered to the division within 30 days after the effective date of the notice of rejection, the annual report is considered to be timely filed.

(6)  The fact that an individual's name is signed on an annual report form is prima facie evidence for division purposes that the individual is authorized to certify the report on behalf of the corporation.

(7)  The annual report form provided by the division may be designed to provide a simplified certification by the corporation if no changes have been made in the required information from the last preceding report filed.

(8)  A domestic or foreign corporation may, but may not be required to, deliver to the division for filing an amendment to its annual report reflecting any change in the information contained in its annual report as last amended.

