71-7-4.   Veterans' Memorial Park Board -- Members -- Appointment -- Meetings -- Per diem and travel expenses.

(1)  There is created a Veterans' Memorial Park Board to serve as an advisory body to the Department of Veterans' Affairs on matters relating to the establishment and operation of a veterans' cemetery and memorial park.

(2)  The board shall consist of the following five members:

(a)  one representative recommended by the state commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars;

(b)  one representative recommended by the state commander of the American Legion;

(c)  one representative recommended by the state commander of the Disabled American Veterans;

(d)  the director of the Department of Veterans' Affairs; and

(e)  one person not affiliated with any of the organizations referred to in this Subsection (2).

(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), the governor shall appoint members in Subsections (2)(a), (b), (c), and (e) above for four-year terms.  The governor shall make final appointments to the board by June 30 of any year in which appointments are to be made under this chapter.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately half of the board is appointed every two years.

(c)  All members shall serve until their successors are appointed.

(d)  Members may not serve more than two consecutive terms.

(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment.

(5) (a)  The board shall select a chair annually from among its members at its first meeting after July 1.

(b)  Three members of the board constitute a quorum to transact business.

(c)  The board shall meet at least quarterly on a regular date fixed by the board.

(d)  The chair or three members of the board may call additional meetings.

(6)  The board shall provide copies of all minutes and an annual report of its activities by June 30 of each year to the Veterans' Advisory Council created in Section 71-8-4.

(7)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

