65A-8a-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Commercial tree species" means:

(a)  Abies concolor (white fir);

(b)  Abies lasiocarpa (subalpine fir);

(c)  Juniperus osteosperma (Utah juniper);

(d)  Juniperus scopulorum (Rocky Mountain juniper);

(e)  Picea engelmannii (Engelmann spruce);

(f)  Picea pungens (blue spruce);

(g)  Pinus contorta (lodgepole pine);

(h)  Pinus edulis (piñon pine);

(i)  Pinus flexilis (limber pine);

(j)  Pinus longaeva (bristlecone pine);

(k)  Pinus monophylla (singleleaf piñon);

(l)  Pinus ponderosa (ponderosa pine);

(m)  Populous tremuloides (quaking aspen);

(n)  Pseudotsuga menziesii (Douglas fir); or

(o)  Quercus gambelii (gambel oak).

(2) (a)  "Forest practice" means, except as provided in Subsection (2)(b):

(i)  the harvesting of commercial tree species;

(ii)  new road construction associated with harvesting or accessing trees;

(iii)  site preparation for regeneration of a timber stand;

(iv)  reforestation; or

(v)  the management of logging slash.

(b)  "Forest practice" does not include:

(i)  the operation of a nursery or Christmas tree farm;

(ii)  the harvest of Christmas trees;

(iii)  the harvest of trees for the noncommercial, personal use by the owner of forested land from which the trees are harvested;

(iv)  a harvesting operation encompassing fewer than five contiguous acres of forested land;

(v)  clearing land for defensible space in a wildland-urban interface; or

(vi)  fuel reduction for a wildland-urban interface or hazardous fuel reduction project.

(3)  "Forested land" means land, except land owned by the federal government or located within an incorporated city, growing commercial tree species that are, or could be at maturity, capable of furnishing raw material used in the manufacture of lumber or other forest products.

(4)  "Forest Water Quality Guidelines" means the field-applicable practice guidelines adopted by the division for use during forestry activities to protect water quality and contained within a nonpoint source management plan.

(5)  "Landowner" means a person who holds an ownership interest in forested land.

(6)  "Operator" means a person who:

(a)  is responsible for conducting forest practices; or

(b)  through a contractual agreement with the landowner, is obligated to or entitled to conduct forest practices or to carry out a timber sale.

(7)  "Wildland-urban interface" means the zone where structures and other human development meets, or intermingles with, undeveloped wildland.



Amended by Chapter 40, 2010 General Session

