31A-30-103 (Superseded 01/01/11).   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Actuarial certification" means a written statement by a member of the
American Academy of Actuaries or other individual approved by the commissioner
that a covered carrier is in compliance with Section 31A-30-106, based upon
the examination of the covered carrier, including review of the appropriate
records and of the actuarial assumptions and methods used by the covered
carrier in establishing premium rates for applicable health benefit plans.
(2)  "Affiliate" or "affiliated" means any entity or person who directly or
indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by,
or is under common control with, a specified entity or person.
(3)  "Base premium rate" means, for each class of business as to a rating
period, the lowest premium rate charged or that could have been charged under
a rating system for that class of business by the covered carrier to covered
insureds with similar case characteristics for health benefit plans with the
same or similar coverage.
(4)  "Basic coverage" means the coverage provided in the Basic Health Care
Plan under Section 31A-22-613.5.
(5)  "Carrier" means any person or entity that provides health insurance in
this state including:
(a)  an insurance company;
(b)  a prepaid hospital or medical care plan;
(c)  a health maintenance organization;
(d)  a multiple employer welfare arrangement; and
(e)  any other person or entity providing a health insurance plan under this
title.
(6) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (6)(b), "case characteristics" means
demographic or other objective characteristics of a covered insured that are
considered by the carrier in determining premium rates for the covered
insured.
(b)  "Case characteristics" do not include:
(i)  duration of coverage since the policy was issued;
(ii)  claim experience; and
(iii)  health status.
(7)  "Class of business" means all or a separate grouping of covered insureds
established under Section 31A-30-105.
(8)  "Conversion policy" means a policy providing coverage under the
conversion provisions required in Chapter 22, Part 7, Group Accident and
Health Insurance.
(9)  "Covered carrier" means any individual carrier or small employer carrier
subject to this chapter.
(10)  "Covered individual" means any individual who is covered under a health
benefit plan subject to this chapter.
(11)  "Covered insureds" means small employers and individuals who are issued
a health benefit plan that is subject to this chapter.
(12)  "Dependent" means an individual to the extent that the individual is
defined to be a dependent by:
(a)  the health benefit plan covering the covered individual; and
(b)  Chapter 22, Part 6, Accident and Health Insurance.
(13)  "Established geographic service area" means a geographical area approved
by the commissioner within which the carrier is authorized to provide
coverage.
(14)  "Index rate" means, for each class of business as to a rating period for
covered insureds with similar case characteristics, the arithmetic average of
the applicable base premium rate and the corresponding highest premium rate.
(15)  "Individual carrier" means a carrier that provides coverage on an
individual basis through a health benefit plan regardless of whether:
(a)  coverage is offered through:
(i)  an association;
(ii)  a trust;
(iii)  a discretionary group; or
(iv)  other similar groups; or
(b)  the policy or contract is situated out-of-state.
(16)  "Individual conversion policy" means a conversion policy issued to:
(a)  an individual; or
(b)  an individual with a family.
(17)  "Individual coverage count" means the number of natural persons covered
under a carrier's health benefit products that are individual policies.
(18)  "Individual enrollment cap" means the percentage set by the commissioner
in accordance with Section 31A-30-110.
(19)  "New business premium rate" means, for each class of business as to a
rating period, the lowest premium rate charged or offered, or that could have
been charged or offered, by the carrier to covered insureds with similar case
characteristics for newly issued health benefit plans with the same or similar
coverage.
(20)  "Plan year" means the year that is designated as the plan year in the
plan document of a group health plan, except that if the plan document does
not designate a plan year or if there is not a plan document, the plan year
is:
(a)  the deductible or limit year used under the plan;
(b)  if the plan does not impose a deductible or limit on a yearly basis, the
policy year;
(c)  if the plan does not impose a deductible or limit on a yearly basis and
either the plan is not insured or the insurance policy is not renewed on an
annual basis, the employer's taxable year; or
(d)  in any case not described in Subsections (20)(a) through (c), the
calendar year.
(21)  "Preexisting condition" is as defined in Section 31A-1-301.
(22)  "Premium" means all monies paid by covered insureds and covered
individuals as a condition of receiving coverage from a covered carrier,
including any fees or other contributions associated with the health benefit
plan.
(23) (a)  "Rating period" means the calendar period for which premium rates
established by a covered carrier are assumed to be in effect, as determined by
the carrier.
(b)  A covered carrier may not have:
(i)  more than one rating period in any calendar month; and
(ii)  no more than 12 rating periods in any calendar year.
(24)  "Resident" means an individual who has resided in this state for at
least 12 consecutive months immediately preceding the date of application.
(25)  "Short-term limited duration insurance" means a health benefit product
that:
(a)  is not renewable; and
(b)  has an expiration date specified in the contract that is less than 364
days after the date the plan became effective.
(26)  "Small employer carrier" means a carrier that provides health benefit
plans covering eligible employees of one or more small employers in this
state, regardless of whether:
(a)  coverage is offered through:
(i)  an association;
(ii)  a trust;
(iii)  a discretionary group; or
(iv)  other similar grouping; or
(b)  the policy or contract is situated out-of-state.
(27)  "Uninsurable" means an individual who:
(a)  is eligible for the Comprehensive Health Insurance Pool coverage under
the underwriting criteria established in Subsection 31A-29-111(5); or
(b) (i)  is issued a certificate for coverage under Subsection 31A-30-108(3);
and
(ii)  has a condition of health that does not meet consistently applied
underwriting criteria as established by the commissioner in accordance with
Subsections 31A-30-106(1)(i) and (j) for which coverage the applicant is
applying.
(28)  "Uninsurable percentage" for a given calendar year equals UC/CI where,
for purposes of this formula:
(a)  "CI" means the carrier's individual coverage count as of December 31 of
the preceding year; and
(b)  "UC" means the number of uninsurable individuals who were issued an
individual policy on or after July 1, 1997.
