72-6-109.   Class B and C roads -- Construction and maintenance --
Definitions -- Estimates lower than bids -- Accountability.
(1)  As used in this section and Section 72-6-108:
(a)  "Bid limit" means:
(i)  for the year 2003, $125,000; and
(ii)  for each year after 2003, the amount of the bid limit for the previous
year, plus an amount calculated by multiplying the amount of the bid limit for
the previous year by the lesser of 3% or the actual percent change in the
Consumer Price Index during the previous calendar year.
(b)  "Consumer Price Index" means the Consumer Price Index for All Urban
Consumers as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States
Department of Labor.
(c) (i)  "Construction" means the work that would apply to:
(A)  any new roadbed either by addition to existing systems or relocation;
(B)  resurfacing of existing roadways with more than two inches of bituminous
pavement; or
(C)  new structures or replacement of existing structures, except the
replacement of drainage culverts.
(ii)  "Construction" does not include maintenance, emergency repairs, or the
installation of traffic control devices as described in Section 41-6a-302.
(d)  "Improvement project" means construction and maintenance as defined in
this section except for that maintenance excluded under Subsection (2).
(e)  "Maintenance" means the keeping of a road facility in a safe and usable
condition to which it was constructed or improved, and includes:
(i)  the reworking of an existing surface by the application of up to and
including two inches of bituminous pavement;
(ii)  the installation or replacement of guardrails, seal coats, and culverts;
(iii)  the grading or widening of an existing unpaved road or flattening of
shoulders or side slopes to meet current width and safety standards; and
(iv)  horizontal or vertical alignment changes necessary to bring an existing
road in compliance with current safety standards.
(f)  "Project" means the performance of a clearly identifiable group of
associated road construction activities or the same type of maintenance
process, where the construction or maintenance is performed on any one class B
or C road, within a half-mile proximity and occurs within the same calendar
year.
(2)  The following types of maintenance work are not subject to the contract
or bid limit requirements of  this section:
(a)  the repair of less than the entire surface by crack sealing or patching;
and
(b)  road repairs incidental to the installation, replacement, or repair of
water mains, sewers, drainage pipes, culverts, or curbs and gutters.
(3) (a) (i)  If the estimates of a qualified engineer referred to in Section
72-6-108 are substantially lower than any responsible bid received or in the
event no bids are received, the county or municipality may perform the work by
force account.
(ii)  In no event shall "substantially lower" mean estimates that are less
than 10% below the lowest responsible bid.
(b)  If a county or municipality performs an improvement project by force
account, it shall:
(i)  provide an accounting of the costs and expenditures of the improvement
including material, labor, and direct equipment costs to be calculated using
the Cost Reference Guide for Construction Equipment by Dataquest Inc. or the
Federal Emergency Management Agency schedule of equipment rates;
(ii)  disclose the costs and expenditures to any person upon request and allow
the person to make a copy and pay for the actual cost of the copy; and
(iii)  perform the work using the same specifications and standards that would
apply to a private contractor.
