72-6-115.   Traffic Management Committee -- Appointment -- Duties.
(1)  As used in this section, "committee" means the Traffic Management
Committee created in this section.
(2) (a)  There is created within the Department of Transportation the Traffic
Management Committee comprising up to 13 members knowledgeable about traffic
engineering, traffic flow, air quality, or intelligent transportation systems
as follows:
(i) two members designated by the executive director of the department;
(ii)  one member designated by the Utah Association of Counties;
(iii)  one member designated by the Department of Environmental Quality;
(iv)  one member designated by the Wasatch Front Regional Council;
(v)  one member designated by the Mountainland Association of Governments;
(vi)  one member designated by the Commissioner of Public Safety; and
(vii)  one member designated by the Utah League of Cities and Towns;
(viii)  one member designated by the general manager of a public transit
district with more than 200,000 people residing within the public transit
district boundaries;
(ix)  up to four additional members designated by the committee for one-year
terms; and
(x)  a designating entity under Subsections (2)(a)(i) through (viii) may
designate an alternative member to serve in the absence of its designated
member.
(b)  The committee shall:
(i)  advise the department on matters related to the implementation and
administration of this section;
(ii)  make recommendations to law enforcement agencies related to traffic flow
and incident management during heavy traffic periods;
(iii)  make recommendations to the department, counties, and municipalities on
increasing the safety and efficiency of highways using current traffic
management systems, including traffic signal coordination, traffic monitoring,
freeway ramp metering, variable message signing, and incident management; and
(iv)  evaluate the cost effectiveness of implementing a specific traffic
management system on a highway considering:
(A)  existing traffic volume in the area;
(B)  the necessity and potential of reducing vehicle emissions in the area;
(C)  the feasibility of the traffic management system on the highway; and
(D)  whether traffic congestion will be reduced by the system.
(c)  The committee shall annually elect a chair and a vice chair from its
members.
(d)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed.
(e)  The committee shall meet as it determines necessary to accomplish its
duties.
(f)  Reasonable notice shall be given to each member of the committee prior to
any meeting.
(g)  A majority of the committee constitutes a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(h) (i) (A)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(B)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(ii) (A)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(B)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(iii) (A)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(B)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for
their service.
(3) (a)  The Department of Transportation shall implement and administer
traffic management systems to facilitate the efficient flow of motor vehicle
traffic on state highways to improve regional mobility, and to reduce motor
vehicle emissions where those improvements are cost effective, as determined
by the committee in accordance with criteria under Subsection (2)(b).
(b)  A traffic management system shall be designed to allow safe, efficient,
and effective:
(i)  integration of existing traffic management systems;
(ii)  additions of highways and intersections under county and city
administrative jurisdiction;
(iii)  incorporation of other traffic management systems; and
(iv)  adaptation to future traffic needs.
(4) (a)  The cost of implementing and administering a traffic management
system shall be shared pro rata by the department and the counties and
municipalities using it.
(b)  The department shall enter into an agreement or contract under Title 11,
Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, with a county or municipality to share
costs incurred under this section.
(5)  Additional highways and intersections under the administrative
jurisdiction of a county or municipality may be added to a traffic management
system upon application of the county or municipality after:
(a)  a recommendation of the committee;
(b)  approval by the department;
(c)  determination of the appropriate cost share of the addition under
Subsection (4)(a); and
(d)  an agreement under Subsection (4)(b).
(6)  The committee may establish technical advisory committees as needed to
assist in accomplishing its duties under this section.
