72-6-121.   Clean fuel vehicle decal.

(1)  Beginning on July 1, 2011, and subject to the requirements of this section, the department shall issue a clean fuel vehicle decal permit and a clean fuel vehicle decal to an applicant if:

(a)  the applicant is an owner of a vehicle powered by clean fuel that meets the standards established by the department in rules authorized under Subsection 41-6a-702(5)(b); and

(b)  the applicant remits an application and all fees required under this section.

(2)  The department shall establish the clean fuel vehicle decal design in consultation with the Utah Highway Patrol.

(3) (a)  An applicant for a clean fuel vehicle decal shall pay a clean fuel vehicle decal fee established by the department in accordance with Section 63J-1-504.

(b)  Funds generated by the clean fuel vehicle decal fee may be used by the department to cover the costs incurred in issuing clean fuel vehicle decals under this section.

(4) (a)  The department shall issue a clean fuel vehicle decal permit and a clean fuel vehicle decal to a person who has been issued a clean fuel special group license plate prior to July 1, 2011.

(b)  A person who applies to the department to receive a clean fuel vehicle decal permit and a clean fuel vehicle decal under Subsection (4)(a) is not subject to the fee imposed under Subsection (3).

(5) (a)  An owner of a vehicle may not place a clean fuel vehicle decal on a vehicle other than the vehicle specified in the application for the clean fuel vehicle decal permit and the clean fuel vehicle decal.

(b)  A person operating a motor vehicle that has been issued a clean fuel vehicle decal shall:

(i)  have in the person's immediate possession the clean fuel vehicle decal permit issued by the department for the motor vehicle the person is operating; and

(ii)  display the permit upon demand of a peace officer.

(6)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the department shall make rules to administer the clean fuel vehicle decal program authorized in this section.

