7-18a-301.   Powers of an agency, branch, or representative office of a
foreign depository institution.
(1)  Subject to the limitations set forth in Subsections (2) and (3), and
notwithstanding any other law of this state, a foreign depository institution
authorized by this state to transact business through an agency or branch
shall transact business with the same rights, privileges, and powers as a Utah
depository institution and shall be subject to all the same duties,
restrictions, penalties, liabilities, conditions, and limitations that would
apply under the laws of this state to a Utah depository institution.
(2)  The general rights, powers, and privileges of a foreign depository
institution authorized by this state to transact business through an agency or
branch set forth in Subsection (1) are limited to the following:
(a)  An agency may not accept any deposits from citizens or residents of the
United States, other than credit balances that are incidental to or arise out
of its exercise of other lawful powers, but it may accept deposits from
persons who are neither citizens nor residents of the United States.
(b)  An agency may pay checks or loan money.
(c)  A branch operating in this state may not accept from citizens or
residents of the United States deposits, other than credit balances that are
incidental to or arise out of its exercise of other lawful powers, of less
than $100,000.
(d)  An agency or branch is not required to maintain federal deposit
insurance.
(e)  After considering the applicable limitations on the retail deposit-taking
powers and privileges of an agency or branch of a foreign depository
institution, the commissioner may, by rule or order, modify the applicability
to an agency or branch, of any law of this state that is generally applicable
to insured depository institutions doing business in this state.
(f)  The commissioner may adopt such additional standards, conditions, or
requirements, or modify the applicability of any existing standards,
conditions, or requirements, by rule or order, as the commissioner may
consider necessary to ensure the safety and soundness and the protection of
creditors of the operations of an agency or branch of a foreign depository
institution in this state.
(3)  A foreign depository institution authorized by this state to transact
business through a representative office may only:
(a)  engage in loan production office activities authorized by Section
7-1-715;
(b)  solicit new business;
(c)  conduct research; or
(d)  perform administrative functions expressly permitted by rule or order.
