49-11-301.   Creation -- Board to act as trustees of the fund -- Commingling
and pooling of funds -- Interest earnings -- Funded ratio.
(1)  There is created a common trust fund known as the "Utah State Retirement
Investment Fund" for the purpose of enlarging the investment base and
simplifying investment procedures and functions.
(2) (a)  The board shall act as trustees of the Utah State Retirement
Investment Fund and, through the executive director, may commingle and pool
the funds and investments of any system, plan, or program into the Utah State
Retirement Investment Fund, if the principal amounts of the participating
funds do not lose their individual identity and are maintained as separate
trust funds on the books of the office.
(b) (i)  In combining the investments of any fund, each of the participating
funds shall be credited initially with its share of the total assets
transferred to the Utah State Retirement Investment Fund.
(ii)  The value of the transferred assets shall be calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles.
(c)  Subsequent transfers of additional capital from participating funds shall
be credited similarly to its respective trust account.
(d)  The income or principal or equity credit belonging to one participating
fund may not be transferred to another, except for the purpose of:
(i)  actuarially recommended transfers in order to adjust employer
contribution rates for an employer that participates in both contributory and
noncontributory systems; or
(ii)  transfers which reflect the value of service credit accrued in different
systems during a member's career.
(3)  The assets of the funds are for the exclusive benefit of the members,
participants, and covered individuals and may not be diverted or appropriated
for any purpose other than that permitted by this title.
(4) (a)  Interest and other earnings shall be credited to each participating
fund on a pro rata equity position basis.
(b) (i)  A portion of the interest and other earnings of the common trust fund
may be credited to a reserve account within the Utah State Retirement
Investment Fund to meet adverse experiences arising from investments or other
contingencies.
(ii)  Each participating fund shall retain its proportionate equity in the
reserve account.
(5) (a)  The actuarial funded ratio of the systems may reach and be maintained
at 110%, as determined by the board's actuary using assumptions adopted by the
board, before the board is required to certify a decrease in contribution
rates.
(b)  The board may not increase contribution rates to attain an actuarial
funded ratio greater than 100%.
