49-11-306.   Definitions -- Scrutinized Companies Investment Report --
Content -- Reporting -- Exceptions.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Active business operations" means all business operations that are not
inactive business operations.
(b) (i)  "Business operations" means investing, with actual knowledge on or
after August 5, 1996, in Iran's petroleum sector which investment directly and
significantly contributes to the enhancement of Iran's ability to develop the
petroleum resources of Iran.
(ii)  "Business operations" does not include the retail sale of gasoline and
related consumer products.
(c)  "Company" means any foreign sole proprietorship, organization,
association, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited partnership,
limited liability partnership, limited liability company, or any other foreign
entity or business association, including all wholly-owned subsidiaries,
majority-owned subsidiaries or parent companies or affiliates of these
entities or business associations, that exists for the purpose of making a
profit.
(d)  "Direct holdings" means all publicly traded equity securities of a
company that are held directly by the public fund or in an account or fund in
which the public fund owns all shares or interests.
(e)  "Inactive business operations" means the continued holding or renewal of
rights to property previously operated for the purpose of generating revenues
but not presently deployed for that purpose.
(f)  "Iran" means the Islamic Republic of Iran.
(g)  "Petroleum resources" means petroleum or natural gas.
(h)  "Public fund" means the Utah State Retirement Investment Fund created
under Section 49-11-301.
(i)  "Scrutinized business operations" means any active business operations
that:
(i)  are subject to or liable for sanctions under Public Law 104-172, the Iran
Sanctions Act of 1996, as amended; and
(ii)  involve the maintenance of:
(A)  the company's existing assets or investments in Iran; or
(B)  the deployment of new investments to Iran that meet or exceed the
threshold referred to in Public Law 104-172, the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996,
as amended.
(j)  "Scrutinized company" means any company engaging in scrutinized business
operations.
(2) (a)  The Utah State Retirement Office shall identify those scrutinized
companies in which the public fund has direct holdings.  In making the
determination, the board shall review and rely on publicly available
information regarding companies with business operations in Iran, including
information provided by nonprofit organizations, research firms, international
organizations, and government entities.
(b)  The office shall assemble a list of all identified scrutinized companies.
(c)  The office shall update the list, on an annual basis, with information
provided and received from those entities listed in Subsection (2)(a).
(3)  The office shall prepare an annual report of public fund investments in
scrutinized companies.
(4)  The report shall include amounts and other data and statistics designed
to explain the past and current extent to which public fund investments in
scrutinized companies are present.
(5)  The report shall be provided to the governor, the board, the president of
the Senate, the speaker of the House of Representatives, and to each member
and staff of the Retirement and Independent Entities Committee created under
Section 63E-1-201.
(6)  The provisions of this section do not apply to:
(a)  money invested in a defined contribution plan as defined under Section
49-11-102; or
(b)  investments in a company that is primarily engaged in:
(i)  supplying goods or services intended to relieve human suffering in Iran;
or
(ii)  promoting health, education, religious, welfare, or journalistic
activities in Iran.
