49-11-403.    Purchase of public service credit not otherwise qualifying for
benefit.
(1)  A member, a participating employer, or a member and a participating
employer jointly may purchase service credit equal to the period of the
member's employment in the following:
(a)  United States federal employment;
(b)  employment in a private school based in the United States, if the member
received an employer paid retirement benefit for the employment;
(c)  public employment in another state or territory of the United States
which qualifies the member for membership in the public plan or system
covering the employment, but only if the member does not qualify for any
retirement benefits based on the employment;
(d)  forfeited service credit in this state if the member does not qualify for
an allowance based on the service credit;
(e)  full-time public service while on an approved leave of absence;
(f)  the period of time for which disability benefits were paid if:
(i)  the member was receiving:
(A)  long-term disability benefits;
(B)  short-term disability benefits; or
(C)  worker's compensation disability benefits; and
(ii)  the member's employer had not entered into a benefit protection contract
under Section 49-11-404 during the period the member was disabled due to
sickness or accident;
(g)  employment covered by a Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of
America retirement plan if the member forfeits any retirement benefit from
that retirement plan for the period of employment to be purchased under this
Subsection (1)(g); or
(h)  employment in a charter school located within the state if the member
forfeits any retirement benefit under any other retirement system or plan for
the period of employment to be purchased under this Subsection (1)(h).
(2)  A member shall:
(a)  have at least four years of service credit before a purchase can be made
under this section; and
(b) forfeit service credit and any defined contribution balance based on
employer contributions under any other retirement system or plan based on the
period of employment for which service credit is being purchased.
(3) (a)  To purchase credit under this section, the member, a participating
employer, or a member and a participating employer jointly shall make payment
to the system under which the member is currently covered.
(b)  The amount of the payment shall be determined by the office based on a
formula that is:
(i)  recommended by the actuary; and
(ii)  adopted by the board.
(4)  The purchase may be made through payroll deductions or through a lump sum
deposit based upon the present value of future payments.
(5)  Total payment must be completed prior to the member's effective date of
retirement or service credit will be prorated in accordance with the amount
paid.
(6) (a) For a purchase made before July 1, 2010, if any of the factors used to
determine the cost of a service credit purchase change at or before the
member's retirement date, the cost of the purchase shall be recalculated at
the time of retirement.
(b) For a purchase made before July 1, 2010, if the recalculated cost exceeds
the amount paid for the purchase, the member, a participating employer, or a
member and a participating employer jointly may:
(i)  pay the increased cost, plus interest, to receive the full amount of
service credit; or
(ii)  not pay the increased cost and have the purchased service credit
prorated.
(c)  For a purchase made on or after July 1, 2010:
(i)  the purchase shall be made in accordance with rules:
(A)  adopted by the board based on recommendations by the board's actuary; and
(B)  in effect at the time the purchase is completed; and
(ii)  the cost of the service credit purchase shall not be recalculated at the
time of retirement.
(7)  If the recalculated cost under Subsection (6)(a) is less than the amount
paid for the purchase, the office shall refund the excess payment to the
member or participating employer who paid for the purchase.
(8) (a)  The board may adopt rules under which a member may make the necessary
payments to the office for purchases under this title as permitted by federal
law.
(b)  The office may reject any payments if the office determines the tax
status of the system, plans, or programs would be jeopardized by allowing the
payment.
(9)  Account balances created under Section 49-22-303, 49-22-401, 49-23-302,
or 49-23-401 may not be used to purchase service credit for a benefit under
Sections 49-22-304, 49-22-305, 49-23-303, and 49-23-304.
