49-11-404.   Benefit protection contract authorized -- Annual report
required.
(1) (a)  A participating employer may establish a salary protection program
under which its employees are paid during periods of disability.
(b)  If a salary protection program is established, a participating employer
may enter into benefit protection contracts with the office.
(c)  A salary protection program shall:
(i)  pay benefits based on the disabled member's rate of compensation at the
time of disability;
(ii)  be substantially equivalent to the long-term disability programs offered
under Chapter 21, Public Employees' Long-Term Disability Act; and
(iii)  comply with requirements adopted by the board.
(2)  A benefit protection contract shall allow:
(a)  the disabled member to be considered an active member in a system and
continue to accrue service credit and salary credit based on the member's rate
of pay in effect at the time disability commences;
(b)  the office to require participating employer contributions to be paid
before granting service credit and salary credit to the member;
(c)  the disabled member to remain eligible during the contract period for any
benefits provided by the system that covers the member; and
(d)  the benefit for the disabled member to be improved by the annual cost-of-
living increase factor applied to retired members of the system that covered
the member on the date the member is eligible to receive benefits under a
benefit protection contract.
(3) (a)  The office shall establish the manner and times when employer
contributions are paid.
(b)  A failure to make the required payments is cause for the office to cancel
a contract.
(c)  Service credit and salary credit granted and accrued up to the time of
cancellation may not be forfeited.
(4)  A participating employer that has entered into a benefit protection
contract under this section shall submit an annual report to the office which
identifies:
(a)  the employees receiving long-term disability benefits under policies
initiated by the participating employer and approved under the benefit
protection contract;
(b)  the employees that have applied for long-term disability benefits and who
are waiting approval; and
(c)  the insurance carriers that are actively providing long-term disability
benefits.
(5)  If an employer fails to provide the annual report required under
Subsection (4), the benefits that would have accrued under the benefit
protection contract shall be forfeited.
(6)  The board may adopt rules to implement and administer this section.
