49-11-604.   Office audits of participating employers -- Penalties for
failure to comply.
(1) (a)  The office may perform on-site compliance audits of participating
employers to determine compliance with reporting, contribution, and
certification requirements under this title.
(b)  The office may request records to be provided by the participating
employer at the time of the audit.
(c)  Audits shall be conducted at the sole discretion of the office after
reasonable notice to the participating employer of at least five working days.
(d)  The participating employer shall extract and provide records as requested
by the office in an appropriate, organized, and usable format.
(e)  Failure of a participating employer to allow access, provide records, or
comply in any way with an office audit shall result in the participating
employer being liable to the office for:
(i)  any liabilities and expenses, including administrative expenses and
travel expenses, resulting from the participating employer's failure to comply
with the audit; and
(ii)  a penalty equal to 1% of the participating employer's last month's
contributions.
(2)  If the audit reveals a participating employer's failure to make
contributions as required under Section 49-11-601, a failure to maintain
records as required under Section 49-11-602, or a failure to correctly report
or certify eligibility as required under Section 49-11-603, the participating
employer shall reimburse the office for the cost of the audit.
(3)  If the audit reveals that an incorrect benefit has been paid by the
office to a member, participant, alternate payee, or beneficiary due to a
participating employer's failure to comply with the requirements of Section
49-11-601, 49-11-602, or 49-11-603, in addition to the liabilities contained
in Subsection (2), the participating employer shall be liable to the office
for the following:
(a)  the actuarial cost of correcting the incorrect benefit; and
(b)  administrative expenses.
(4)  The executive director may waive all or any part of the interest,
penalties, expenses, and fees if the executive director finds there were
extenuating circumstances surrounding the participating employer's failure to
comply with this section.
