49-11-613.   Appeals procedure -- Right of appeal to hearing officer --
Board reconsideration -- Judicial review.
(1) (a)  All members, retirees, participants, alternative payees, or covered
individuals of a system, plan, or program under this title shall acquaint
themselves with their rights and obligations under this title.
(b)  Any dispute regarding a benefit, right, obligation, or employment right
under this title is subject to the procedures provided under this section.
(c)  A person who disputes a benefit, right, obligation, or employment right
under this title shall request a ruling by the executive director who may
delegate the decision to the deputy director.
(d)  A person who is dissatisfied by a ruling of the executive director or
deputy director with respect to any benefit, right, obligation, or employment
right under this title shall request a review of that claim by a hearing
officer.
(e)  The executive director, on behalf of the board, may request that the
hearing officer review a dispute regarding any benefit, right, obligation, or
employment right under this title by filing a notice of board action and
providing notice to all affected parties in accordance with rules adopted by
the board.
(2)  The hearing officer shall:
(a)  be hired by the executive director after consultation with the board;
(b)  follow the procedures and requirements of Title 63G, Chapter 4,
Administrative Procedures Act, except as specifically modified under this
title;
(c)  hear and determine all facts relevant to a decision, including facts
pertaining to applications for benefits under any system, plan, or program
under this title and all matters pertaining to the administration of the
office; and
(d)  make conclusions of law in determining the person's rights under any
system, plan, or program under this title and matters pertaining to the
administration of the office.
(3)  The board shall review and approve or deny all decisions of the hearing
officer in accordance with rules adopted by the board.
(4)  The moving party in any proceeding brought under this section shall bear
the burden of proof.
(5)  A party may file an application for reconsideration by the board upon any
of the following grounds:
(a)  that the board acted in excess of its powers;
(b)  that the order or award was procured by fraud;
(c)  that the evidence does not justify the determination of the hearing
officer; or
(d)  that the party has discovered new material evidence  that could not, with
reasonable diligence, have been discovered or procured prior to the hearing.
(6)  The board shall affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the hearing
officer, or remand the application to the hearing officer for further
consideration.
(7)  A party aggrieved by the board's decision may obtain judicial review by
complying with the procedures and requirements of Title 63G, Chapter 4,
Administrative Procedures Act.
(8)  The board may make rules to implement this section.
