13-45-201.   Security freeze.
(1)  A consumer may place a security freeze on the consumer's credit report
by:
(a)  making a request to a consumer reporting agency in writing by certified
mail;
(b)  providing proper identification; and
(c)  paying the fee required by the consumer reporting agency in accordance
with Section 13-45-204.
(2)  If a security freeze is in place, a consumer reporting agency may not
release a consumer's credit report, or information from the credit report, to
a third party that intends to use the information to determine a consumer's
eligibility for credit without prior authorization from the consumer.
(3) (a)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2), a consumer reporting agency may
communicate to a third party requesting a consumer's credit report that a
security freeze is in effect on the consumer's credit report.
(b)  If a third party requesting a consumer's credit report in connection with
the consumer's application for credit is notified of the existence of a
security freeze under Subsection (3)(a), the third party may treat the
consumer's application as incomplete.
(4)  Upon receiving a request from a consumer under Subsection (1), the
consumer reporting agency shall:
(a)  place a security freeze on the consumer's credit report within five
business days after receiving the consumer's request;
(b)  send a written confirmation of the security freeze to the consumer within
10 business days after placing the security freeze; and
(c)  provide the consumer with a unique personal identification number or
password to be used by the consumer when providing authorizations for removal
or temporary removal of the security freeze under Section 13-45-202.
(5)  A consumer reporting agency shall require proper identification of the
consumer requesting to place, remove, or temporarily remove a security freeze.
(6) (a)  A consumer reporting agency shall develop a contact method to receive
and process a consumer's request to place, remove, or temporarily remove a
security freeze.
(b)  A contact method under Subsection (6)(a) shall include:
(i)  a postal address;
(ii)  an electronic contact method chosen by the consumer reporting agency,
which may include the use of fax, Internet, or other electronic means; and
(iii)  the use of telephone in a manner that is consistent with any federal
requirements placed on the consumer reporting agency.
(7)  A security freeze placed under this section may be removed only in
accordance with Section 13-45-202.
