31A-22-305.5.   Uninsured motorist property damage coverage -- Coverage
limitations.
(1) (a)  At the request of the named insured, every motor vehicle liability
policy of insurance under Sections 31A-22-303 and 31A-22-304 or combination of
policies purchased to satisfy the owner's or operator's security requirement
of Section 41-12a-301 which policy does not provide insurance for collision
damage shall provide uninsured motorist property damage coverage for property
damage to the motor vehicle described in the policy.
(b)  The uninsured motorist property damage coverage provided under Subsection
(1)(a) shall be for the benefit of covered persons, as defined under Section
31A-22-305, who are legally entitled to recover damages:
(i)  from the owner or operator of an uninsured motor vehicle, as defined
under Subsections 31A-22-305 (2)(a), (c), and (d); and
(ii)  arising out of the operation, maintenance, or use of an uninsured motor
vehicle.
(2) (a)  Except as provided under Subsection (5), the coverage provided under
this section shall include payment for loss or damage to the motor vehicle
described in the policy, not to exceed the motor vehicle's actual cash value
or $3,500, whichever is less.
(b)  Property damage does not include compensation for loss of use of the
motor vehicle.
(3)  The coverage provided under this section shall be payable only if:
(a)  the occurrence causing the property damage involves actual physical
contact between the covered motor vehicle and an uninsured motor vehicle;
(b)  the owner, operator, or license plate number of the uninsured motor
vehicle is identified; and
(c)  the insured or someone on his behalf reports the occurrence within ten
days to the insurer or his agent.
(4)  Except as provided under Subsection (5), the coverage provided under this
section shall be subject to a $250 deductible and shall be excess to any other
insurance covering property damage to the motor vehicle described in the
policy.
(5)  The insurer providing coverage under this section may, at appropriate
premium rates, make available additional:
(a)  coverage above the limits provided under Subsection (2); and
(b)  deductibles for the coverage under Subsection (5)(a) above the limits
provided under Subsection (4).
(6) A rating surcharge may not be applied to any policy of motor vehicle
insurance issued in this state as a result of payment of a claim made under
this section.
