31A-22-305.   Uninsured motorist coverage.
(1)  As used in this section, "covered persons" includes:
(a)  the named insured;
(b)  persons related to the named insured by blood, marriage, adoption, or
guardianship, who are residents of the named insured's household, including
those who usually make their home in the same household but temporarily live
elsewhere;
(c)  any person occupying or using a motor vehicle:
(i)  referred to in the policy; or
(ii)  owned by a self-insured; and
(d)  any person who is entitled to recover damages against the owner or
operator of the uninsured or underinsured motor vehicle because of bodily
injury to or death of persons under Subsection (1)(a), (b), or (c).
(2)  As used in this section, "uninsured motor vehicle" includes:
(a) (i)  a motor vehicle, the operation, maintenance, or use of which is not
covered under a liability policy at the time of an injury-causing occurrence;
or
(ii) (A)  a motor vehicle covered with lower liability limits than required by
Section 31A-22-304; and
(B)  the motor vehicle described in Subsection (2)(a)(ii)(A) is uninsured to
the extent of the deficiency;
(b)  an unidentified motor vehicle that left the scene of an accident
proximately caused by the motor vehicle operator;
(c)  a motor vehicle covered by a liability policy, but coverage for an
accident is disputed by the liability insurer for more than 60 days or
continues to be disputed for more than 60 days; or
(d) (i)  an insured motor vehicle if, before or after the accident, the
liability insurer of the motor vehicle is declared insolvent by a court of
competent jurisdiction; and
(ii)  the motor vehicle described in Subsection (2)(d)(i) is uninsured only to
the extent that the claim against the insolvent insurer is not paid by a
guaranty association or fund.
(3) (a)  Uninsured motorist coverage under Subsection 31A-22-302(1)(b)
provides coverage for covered persons who are legally entitled to recover
damages from owners or operators of uninsured motor vehicles because of bodily
injury, sickness, disease, or death.
(b)  For new policies written on or after January 1, 2001, the limits of
uninsured motorist coverage shall be equal to the lesser of the limits of the
insured's motor vehicle liability coverage or the maximum uninsured motorist
coverage limits available by the insurer under the insured's motor vehicle
policy, unless the insured purchases coverage in a lesser amount by signing an
acknowledgment form that:
(i)  is filed with the department;
(ii)  is provided by the insurer;
(iii)  waives the higher coverage;
(iv)  reasonably explains the purpose of uninsured motorist coverage; and
(v)  discloses the additional premiums required to purchase uninsured motorist
coverage with limits equal to the lesser of the limits of the insured's motor
vehicle liability coverage or the maximum uninsured motorist coverage limits
available by the insurer under the insured's motor vehicle policy.
(c)  A self-insured, including a governmental entity, may elect to provide
uninsured motorist coverage in an amount that is less than its maximum self-
insured retention under Subsections (3)(b) and (4)(a) by issuing a declaratory
memorandum or policy statement from the chief financial officer or chief risk
officer that declares the:
(i)  self-insured entity's coverage level; and
(ii)  process for filing an uninsured motorist claim.
(d)  Uninsured motorist coverage may not be sold with limits that are less
than the minimum bodily injury limits for motor vehicle liability policies
under Section 31A-22-304.
(e)  The acknowledgment under Subsection (3)(b) continues for that issuer of
the uninsured motorist coverage until the insured, in writing, requests
different uninsured motorist coverage from the insurer.
(f) (i)  In conjunction with the first two renewal notices sent after January
1, 2001, for policies existing on that date, the insurer shall disclose in the
same medium as the premium renewal notice, an explanation of:
(A)  the purpose of uninsured motorist coverage; and
(B)  the costs associated with increasing the coverage in amounts up to and
including the maximum amount available by the insurer under the insured's
motor vehicle policy.
(ii)  The disclosure required under this Subsection (3)(f) shall be sent to
all insureds that carry uninsured motorist coverage limits in an amount less
than the insured's motor vehicle liability policy limits or the maximum
uninsured motorist coverage limits available by the insurer under the
insured's motor vehicle policy.
(4) (a) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), the named insured may
reject uninsured motorist coverage by an express writing to the insurer that
provides liability coverage under Subsection 31A-22-302(1)(a).
(ii)  This rejection shall be on a form provided by the insurer that includes
a reasonable explanation of the purpose of uninsured motorist coverage.
(iii)  This rejection continues for that issuer of the liability coverage
until the insured in writing requests uninsured motorist coverage from that
liability insurer.
(b) (i)  All persons, including governmental entities, that are engaged in the
business of, or that accept payment for, transporting natural persons by motor
vehicle, and all school districts that provide transportation services for
their students, shall provide coverage for all motor vehicles used for that
purpose, by purchase of a policy of insurance or by self-insurance, uninsured
motorist coverage of at least $25,000 per person and $500,000 per accident.
(ii)  This coverage is secondary to any other insurance covering an injured
covered person.
(c)  Uninsured motorist coverage:
(i)  is secondary to the benefits provided by Title 34A, Chapter 2, Workers'
Compensation Act;
(ii)  may not be subrogated by the workers' compensation insurance carrier;
(iii)  may not be reduced by any benefits provided by workers' compensation
insurance;
(iv)  may be reduced by health insurance subrogation only after the covered
person has been made whole;
(v)  may not be collected for bodily injury or death sustained by a person:
(A)  while committing a violation of Section 41-1a-1314;
(B)  who, as a passenger in a vehicle, has knowledge that the vehicle is being
operated in violation of Section 41-1a-1314; or
(C)  while committing a felony; and
(vi)  notwithstanding Subsection (4)(c)(v), may be recovered:
(A)  for a person under 18 years of age who is injured within the scope of
Subsection (4)(c)(v) but limited to medical and funeral expenses; or
(B)  by a law enforcement officer as defined in Section 53-13-103, who is
injured within the course and scope of the law enforcement officer's duties.
(d)  As used in this Subsection (4), "motor vehicle" has the same meaning as
under Section 41-1a-102.
(5)  When a covered person alleges that an uninsured motor vehicle under
Subsection (2)(b) proximately caused an accident without touching the covered
person or the motor vehicle occupied by the covered person, the covered person
must show the existence of the uninsured motor vehicle by clear and convincing
evidence consisting of more than the covered person's testimony.
(6) (a)  The limit of liability for uninsured motorist coverage for two or
more motor vehicles may not be added together, combined, or stacked to
determine the limit of insurance coverage available to an injured person for
any one accident.
(b) (i)  Subsection (6)(a) applies to all persons except a covered person as
defined under Subsection (7)(b)(ii).
(ii)  A covered person as defined under Subsection (7)(b)(ii) is entitled to
the highest limits of uninsured motorist coverage afforded for any one motor
vehicle that the covered person is the named insured or an insured family
member.
(iii)  This coverage shall be in addition to the coverage on the motor vehicle
the covered person is occupying.
(iv)  Neither the primary nor the secondary coverage may be set off against
the other.
(c)  Coverage on a motor vehicle occupied at the time of an accident shall be
primary coverage, and the coverage elected by a person described under
Subsections (1)(a) and (b) shall be secondary coverage.
(7) (a)  Uninsured motorist coverage under this section applies to bodily
injury, sickness, disease, or death of covered persons while occupying or
using a motor vehicle only if the motor vehicle is described in the policy
under which a claim is made, or if the motor vehicle is a newly acquired or
replacement motor vehicle covered under the terms of the policy.  Except as
provided in Subsection (6) or this Subsection (7), a covered person injured in
a motor vehicle described in a policy that includes uninsured motorist
benefits may not elect to collect uninsured motorist coverage benefits from
any other motor vehicle insurance policy under which the person is a covered
person.
(b)  Each of the following persons may also recover uninsured motorist
benefits under any one other policy in which they are described as a "covered
person" as defined in Subsection (1):
(i)  a covered person injured as a pedestrian by an uninsured motor vehicle;
and
(ii)  except as provided in Subsection (7)(c), a covered person injured while
occupying or using a motor vehicle that is not owned, leased, or furnished:
(A)  to the covered person;
(B)  to the covered person's spouse; or
(C)  to the covered person's resident parent or resident sibling.
(c) (i)  A covered person may recover benefits from no more than two
additional policies, one additional policy from each parent's household if the
covered person is:
(A)  a dependent minor of parents who reside in separate households; and
(B)  injured while occupying or using a motor vehicle that is not owned,
leased, or furnished:
(I)  to the covered person;
(II)  to the covered person's resident parent; or
(III)  to the covered person's resident sibling.
(ii)  Each parent's policy under this Subsection (7)(c) is liable only for the
percentage of the damages that the limit of liability of each parent's policy
of uninsured motorist coverage bears to the total of both parents' uninsured
coverage applicable to the accident.
(d)  A covered person's recovery under any available policies may not exceed
the full amount of damages.
(e)  A covered person in Subsection (7)(b) is not barred against making
subsequent elections if recovery is unavailable under previous elections.
(f) (i)  As used in this section, "interpolicy stacking" means recovering
benefits for a single incident of loss under more than one insurance policy.
(ii)  Except to the extent permitted by Subsection (6) and this Subsection
(7), interpolicy stacking is prohibited for uninsured motorist coverage.
(8) (a)  When a claim is brought by a named insured or a person described in
Subsection (1) and is asserted against the covered person's uninsured motorist
carrier, the claimant may elect to resolve the claim:
(i)  by submitting the claim to binding arbitration; or
(ii)  through litigation.
(b)  Unless otherwise provided in the policy under which uninsured benefits
are claimed, the election provided in Subsection (8)(a) is available to the
claimant only.
(c)  Once the claimant has elected to commence litigation under Subsection
(8)(a)(ii), the claimant may not elect to resolve the claim through binding
arbitration under this section without the written consent of the uninsured
motorist carrier.
(d) (i)  Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the parties, a claim that is
submitted to binding arbitration under Subsection (8)(a)(i) shall be resolved
by a single arbitrator.
(ii)  All parties shall agree on the single arbitrator selected under
Subsection (8)(d)(i).
(iii)  If the parties are unable to agree on a single arbitrator as required
under Subsection (8)(d)(ii), the parties shall select a panel of three
arbitrators.
(e)  If the parties select a panel of three arbitrators under Subsection
(8)(d)(iii):
(i)  each side shall select one arbitrator; and
(ii)  the arbitrators appointed under Subsection (8)(e)(i) shall select one
additional arbitrator to be included in the panel.
(f)  Unless otherwise agreed to in writing:
(i)  each party shall pay an equal share of the fees and costs of the
arbitrator selected under Subsection (8)(d)(i); or
(ii)  if an arbitration panel is selected under Subsection (8)(d)(iii):
(A)  each party shall pay the fees and costs of the arbitrator selected by
that party; and
(B)  each party shall pay an equal share of the fees and costs of the
arbitrator selected under Subsection (8)(e)(ii).
(g)  Except as otherwise provided in this section or unless otherwise agreed
to in writing by the parties, an arbitration proceeding conducted under this
section shall be governed by Title 78B, Chapter 11, Utah Uniform Arbitration
Act.
(h)  The arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with Rules 26 through
37, 54, and 68 of the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.
(i)  All issues of discovery shall be resolved by the arbitrator or the
arbitration panel.
(j)  A written decision by a single arbitrator or by a majority of the
arbitration panel shall constitute a final decision.
(k) (i)  The amount of an arbitration award may not exceed the uninsured
motorist policy limits of all applicable uninsured motorist policies,
including applicable uninsured motorist umbrella policies.
(ii)  If the initial arbitration award exceeds the uninsured motorist policy
limits of all applicable uninsured motorist policies, the arbitration award
shall be reduced to an amount equal to the combined uninsured motorist policy
limits of all applicable uninsured motorist policies.
(l)  The arbitrator or arbitration panel may not decide the issues of coverage
or extra-contractual damages, including:
(i)  whether the claimant is a covered person;
(ii)  whether the policy extends coverage to the loss; or
(iii)  any allegations or claims asserting consequential damages or bad faith
liability.
(m)  The arbitrator or arbitration panel may not conduct arbitration on a
class-wide or class-representative basis.
(n)  If the arbitrator or arbitration panel finds that the action was not
brought, pursued, or defended in good faith, the arbitrator or arbitration
panel may award reasonable attorney fees and costs against the party that
failed to bring, pursue, or defend the claim in good faith.
(o)  An arbitration award issued under this section shall be the final
resolution of all claims not excluded by Subsection (8)(l) between the parties
unless:
(i)  the award was procured by corruption, fraud, or other undue means; or
(ii)  either party, within 20 days after service of the arbitration award:
(A)  files a complaint requesting a trial de novo in the district court; and
(B)  serves the nonmoving party with a copy of the complaint requesting a
trial de novo under Subsection (8)(o)(ii)(A).
(p) (i)  Upon filing a complaint for a trial de novo under Subsection (8)(o),
the claim shall proceed through litigation pursuant to the Utah Rules of Civil
Procedure and Utah Rules of Evidence in the district court.
(ii)  In accordance with Rule 38, Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, either party
may request a jury trial with a complaint requesting a trial de novo under
Subsection (8)(o)(ii)(A).
(q) (i)  If the claimant, as the moving party in a trial de novo requested
under Subsection (8)(o), does not obtain a verdict that is at least $5,000 and
is at least 20% greater than the arbitration award, the claimant is
responsible for all of the nonmoving party's costs.
(ii)  If the uninsured motorist carrier, as the moving party in a trial de
novo requested under Subsection (8)(o), does not obtain a verdict that is at
least 20% less than the arbitration award, the uninsured motorist carrier is
responsible for all of the nonmoving party's costs.
(iii)  Except as provided in Subsection (8)(q)(iv), the costs under this
Subsection (8)(q) shall include:
(A)  any costs set forth in Rule 54(d), Utah Rules of Civil Procedure; and
(B)  the costs of expert witnesses and depositions.
(iv)  An award of costs under this Subsection (8)(q) may not exceed $2,500.
(r)  For purposes of determining whether a party's verdict is greater or less
than the arbitration award under Subsection (8)(q), a court may not consider
any recovery or other relief granted on a claim for damages if the claim for
damages:
(i)  was not fully disclosed in writing prior to the arbitration proceeding;
or
(ii)  was not disclosed in response to discovery contrary to the Utah Rules of
Civil Procedure.
(s)  If a district court determines, upon a motion of the nonmoving party,
that the moving party's use of the trial de novo process was filed in bad
faith in accordance with Section 78B-5-825, the district court may award
reasonable attorney fees to the nonmoving party.
(t)  Nothing in this section is intended to limit any claim under any other
portion of an applicable insurance policy.
(u)  If there are multiple uninsured motorist policies, as set forth in
Subsection (7), the claimant may elect to arbitrate in one hearing the claims
against all the uninsured motorist carriers.
