31A-22-610.6.   Special enrollment for individuals receiving premium
assistance.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Premium assistance" means assistance under Title 26, Chapter 18, Medical
Assistance Act, in the payment of premium.
(b)  "Qualified beneficiary" means an individual who is approved to receive
premium assistance.
(2)  Subject to the other provisions in this section, an individual may enroll
under this section at a time outside of an employer health benefit plan open
enrollment period, regardless of previously waiving coverage, if the
individual is:
(a)  a qualified beneficiary who is eligible for coverage as an employee under
the employer health benefit plan; or
(b)  a dependent of the qualified beneficiary who is eligible for coverage
under the employer health benefit plan.
(3)  To be eligible to enroll outside of an open enrollment period, an
individual described in Subsection (2) shall enroll in the employer health
benefit plan by no later than 30 days from the day on which the qualified
beneficiary receives initial written notification, after July 1, 2008, that
the qualified beneficiary is eligible to receive premium assistance.
(4)  An individual described in Subsection (2) may enroll under this section
only in an employer health benefit plan that is available at the time of
enrollment to similarly situated eligible employees or dependents of eligible
employees.
(5)  Coverage under an employer health benefit plan for an individual
described in Subsection (2) may begin as soon as the first day of the month
immediately following enrollment of the individual in accordance with this
section.
(6)  This section does not modify any requirement related to premiums that
applies under an employer health benefit plan to a similarly situated eligible
employee or dependent of an eligible employee under the employer health
benefit plan.
(7)  An employer health benefit plan may require an individual described in
Subsection (2) to satisfy a preexisting condition waiting period that:
(a)  is allowed under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
of 1996, Pub. L. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1936; and
(b)  is not longer than 12 months.
