31A-22-610.1.   Adoption indemnity benefit.
(1) (a) (i)  If an insured has coverage for maternity benefits on the date of
an adoptive placement, the insured's policy shall provide an adoption
indemnity benefit payable to the insured, if a child is placed for adoption
with the insured within 90 days of the child's birth.  If more than one child
from the same birth is placed for adoption with the insured, only one adoption
indemnity benefit is required.
(ii)  This section does not prevent an accident and health insurer from:
(A)  adjusting the benefit payable under this section for cost sharing
measures imposed under the policy or contract for maternity benefit coverage;
or
(B)  providing additional adoption indemnity benefits including:
(I)  extending the period of time after birth in which a child must be placed
with an insured; or
(II)  providing a benefit in excess of the amount specified in Subsection
(1)(c).
(b)  An insurer that has paid the adoption indemnity benefit under Subsection
(1)(a) may seek reimbursement of the benefit if:
(i)  the postplacement evaluation disapproves the adoption placement; and
(ii)  a court rules the adoption may not be finalized because of an act or
omission of an adoptive parent or parents that affects the child's health or
safety.
(c)  The amount of the adoption indemnity benefit provided under Subsection
(1) is $4,000 subject to the adjustments permitted by Subsection (1)(a)(ii).
(d)  Each insurer shall pay its pro rata share of the adoption indemnity
benefit if each adoptive parent:
(i)  has coverage for maternity benefits with a different insurer; and
(ii)  makes a claim for the adoption indemnity benefit provided in Subsection
(1)(a).
(2)  If a policy offers optional maternity benefits, it shall also offer
coverage for adoption indemnity benefits if:
(a)  a child is placed for adoption with the insured within 90 days of the
child's birth; and
(b)  the adoption is finalized within one year of the child’s birth.
(3)  If an insured qualifies for the adoption indemnity benefit under this
section and receives services from a health care provider under contract with
his insurer, the contracting health care provider may only collect from the
insured the amount that the contracting health care provider is entitled to
receive for such services under the contract, including any applicable
copayment.
(4)  For purposes of this section, "contracting health care provider" means:
(a)  a "participating provider" as defined in Section 31A-8-101; or
(b)  a "preferred health care provider" as described in Section 31A-22-617.
