31A-22-613.   Permitted provisions for accident and health insurance policies.

The following provisions may be contained in an accident and health insurance policy, but if they are in that policy, they shall conform to at least the minimum requirements for the policyholder in this section.

(1)  Any provision respecting change of occupation may provide only for a lower maximum benefit payment and for reduction of loss payments proportionate to the change in appropriate premium rates, if the change is to a higher rated occupation, and this provision shall provide for retroactive reduction of premium rates from the date of change of occupation or the last policy anniversary date, whichever is the more recent, if the change is to a lower rated occupation.

(2)  Section 31A-22-405 applies to misstatement of age in accident and health policies, with the appropriate modifications of terminology.

(3)  Any policy which contains a provision establishing, as an age limit or otherwise, a date after which the coverage provided by the policy is not effective, and if that date falls within a period for which a premium is accepted by the insurer or if the insurer accepts a premium after that date, the coverage provided by the policy continues in force, subject to any right of cancellation, until the end of the period for which the premium was accepted.  This Subsection (3) does not apply if the acceptance of premium would not have occurred but for a misstatement of age by the insured.

(4) (a)  If an insured is otherwise eligible for maternity benefits, a policy may not contain language which requires  an insured to obtain any additional preauthorization or preapproval for customary and reasonable maternity care expenses or for the delivery of the child after an initial preauthorization or preapproval has been obtained from the insurer for prenatal care.  A requirement for notice of admission for delivery is not a requirement for preauthorization or preapproval, however, the maternity benefit may not be denied or diminished for failure to provide admission notice.  The policy may not require the provision of admission notice by only the insured patient.

(b)  This Subsection (4) does not prohibit an insurer from:

(i)  requiring a referral before maternity care can be obtained;

(ii)  specifying a group of providers or a particular location from which an insured is required to obtain maternity care; or

(iii)  limiting reimbursement for maternity expenses and benefits in accordance with the terms and conditions of the insurance contract so long as such terms do not conflict with Subsection (4)(a).

(5)  An insurer may only represent that a policy:

(a)  offers a vision benefit if the policy:

(i)  charges a premium for the benefit; and

(ii)  provides reimbursement for materials or services provided under the policy; and

(b)  covers laser vision correction, whether photorefractive keratectomy, laser assisted in-situ keratomelusis, or related procedure, if the policy:

(i)  charges a premium for the benefit; and

(ii)  the procedure is at least a partially covered benefit.

