31A-22-614.   Claims under accident and health policies.

(1)  Section 31A-21-312 applies generally to claims under accident and health policies.

(2) (a)  Subject to Subsection (1), an accident and health insurance policy may not contain a claim notice requirement less favorable to the insured than one which requires written notice of the claim within 20 days after the occurrence or commencement of any loss covered by the policy.  The policy shall specify to whom claim notices may be given.

(b)  If a loss of time benefit under a policy may be paid for a period of at least two years, an insurer may require periodic notices that the insured continues to have a disability, unless the insured is legally incapacitated.  The insured's delay in giving that notice does not impair the insured's or beneficiary's right to any indemnity which would otherwise have accrued during the six months preceding the date on which that notice is actually given.

(3)  An accident and health insurance policy may not contain a time limit on proof of loss which is more restrictive to the insured than a provision requiring written proof of loss, delivered to the insurer, within the following time:

(a)  for a claim where periodic payments are contingent upon continuing loss, within 90 days after the termination of the period for which the insurer is liable; or

(b)  for any other claim, within 90 days after the date of the loss.

(4) (a) (i)  Section 31A-26-301 applies generally to the payment of claims.

(ii)  Indemnity for loss of life is paid in accordance with the beneficiary designation effective at the time of payment.  If no valid beneficiary designation exists, the indemnity is paid to the insured's estate.  Any other accrued indemnities unpaid at the insured's death are paid to the insured's estate.

(b)  Reasonable facility of payment clauses, specified by the commissioner by rule or in approving the policy form, are permitted.  Payment made in good faith and in accordance with those clauses discharges the insurer's obligation to pay those claims.

(c)  All or a portion of any indemnities provided under an accident and health policy on account of hospital, nursing, medical, or surgical services may, at the insurer's option, be paid directly to the hospital or person rendering the services.



Amended by Chapter 366, 2011 General Session

