31A-22-614.5.   Uniform claims processing -- Electronic exchange of health
information.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(c), all insurers offering health
insurance shall use a uniform claim form and uniform billing and claim codes.
(b)  Beginning January 1, 2011, all health benefit plans, and dental and
vision plans, shall provide for the electronic exchange of uniform:
(i)  eligibility and coverage information; and
(ii)  coordination of benefits information.
(c)  For purposes of Subsection (1)(a), "health insurance" does not include a
policy or certificate that provides benefits solely for:
(i)  income replacement; or
(ii)  long-term care.
(2) (a)  The uniform electronic standards and information required in
Subsection (1) shall be adopted and approved by the commissioner in accordance
with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(b)  When adopting rules under this section the commissioner:
(i)  shall:
(A)  consult with national and state organizations involved with the
standardized exchange of health data, and the electronic exchange of health
data, to develop the standards for the use and electronic exchange of uniform:
(I)  claim forms;
(II)  billing and claim codes;
(III)  insurance eligibility and coverage information; and
(IV)  coordination of benefits information; and
(B)  meet federal mandatory minimum standards following the adoption of
national requirements for transaction and data elements in the federal Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-191, 110
Stat. 1936;
(ii)  may not require an insurer or administrator to use a specific software
product or vendor; and
(iii)  may require an insurer who participates in the all payer database
created under Section 26-33a-106.1 to allow data regarding demographic and
insurance coverage information  to be electronically shared with the state's
designated secure health information master person index to be used:
(A)  in compliance with data security standards established by:
(I)  the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996,
Pub. L. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1936; and
(II)  the electronic commerce agreements established in a business associate
agreement; and
(B)  for the purpose of coordination of health benefit plans.
(3) (a)  The commissioner shall coordinate the administrative rules adopted
under the provisions of this section with the administrative rules adopted by
the Department of Health for the implementation of the standards for the
electronic exchange of clinical health information under Section 26-1-37.  The
department shall establish procedures for developing the rules adopted under
this section, which ensure that the Department of Health is given the
opportunity to comment on proposed rules.
(b) (i)  The commissioner may provide information to health care providers
regarding resources available to a health care provider to verify whether a
health care provider's practice management software system meets the uniform
electronic standards for data exchange required by this section.
(ii)  The commissioner may provide the information described in Subsection
(3)(b)(i) by partnering with:
(A)  a not-for-profit, broad based coalition of state health care insurers and
health care providers who are involved in the electronic exchange of the data
required by this section; or
(B)  some other person that the commissioner determines is appropriate to
provide the information described in Subsection (3)(b)(i).
(c)  The commissioner shall regulate any fees charged by insurers to the
providers for:
(i)  uniform claim forms;
(ii)  electronic billing; or
(iii)  the electronic exchange of clinical health information permitted by
Section 26-1-37.
