31A-22-617.   Preferred provider contract provisions.
Health insurance policies may provide for insureds to receive services or
reimbursement under the policies in accordance with preferred health care
provider contracts as follows:
(1)  Subject to restrictions under this section, any insurer or third party
administrator may enter into contracts with health care providers as defined
in Section 78B-3-403 under which the health care providers agree to supply
services, at prices specified in the contracts, to persons insured by an
insurer.
(a) (i)  A health care provider contract may require the health care provider
to accept the specified payment as payment in full, relinquishing the right to
collect additional amounts from the insured person.
(ii)  In any dispute involving a provider's claim for reimbursement, the same
shall be determined in accordance with applicable law, the provider contract,
the subscriber contract, and the insurer's written payment policies in effect
at the time services were rendered.
(iii)  If the parties are unable to resolve their dispute, the matter shall be
subject to binding arbitration by a jointly selected arbitrator.  Each party
is to bear its own expense except the cost of the jointly selected arbitrator
shall be equally shared.  This Subsection (1)(a)(iii) does not apply to the
claim of a general acute hospital to the extent it is inconsistent with the
hospital's provider agreement.
(iv)  An organization may not penalize a provider solely for pursuing a claims
dispute or otherwise demanding payment for a sum believed owing.
(v)  If an insurer permits another entity with which it does not share common
ownership or control to use or otherwise lease one or more of the
organization's networks of participating providers, the organization shall
ensure, at a minimum, that the entity pays participating providers in
accordance with the same fee schedule and general payment policies as the
organization would for that network.
(b)  The insurance contract may reward the insured for selection of preferred
health care providers by:
(i)  reducing premium rates;
(ii)  reducing deductibles;
(iii)  coinsurance;
(iv)  other copayments; or
(v)  any other reasonable manner.
(c)  If the insurer is a managed care organization, as defined in Subsection
31A-27a-403(1)(f):
(i)  the insurance contract and the health care provider contract shall
provide that in the event the managed care organization becomes insolvent, the
rehabilitator or liquidator may:
(A)  require the health care provider to continue to provide health care
services under the contract until the earlier of:
(I)  90 days after the date of the filing of a petition for rehabilitation or
the petition for liquidation; or
(II)  the date the term of the contract ends; and
(B)  subject to Subsection (1)(c)(v), reduce the fees the provider is
otherwise entitled to receive from the managed care organization during the
time period described in Subsection (1)(c)(i)(A);
(ii)  the provider is required to:
(A)  accept the reduced payment under Subsection (1)(c)(i)(B) as payment in
full; and
(B)  relinquish the right to collect additional amounts from the insolvent
managed care organization's enrollee, as defined in Subsection 31A-
27a-403(1)(b);
(iii)  if the contract between the health care provider and the managed care
organization has not been reduced to writing, or the contract fails to contain
the language required by Subsection (1)(c)(i), the provider may not collect or
attempt to collect from the enrollee:
(A)  sums owed by the insolvent managed care organization; or
(B)  the amount of the regular fee reduction authorized under Subsection
(1)(c)(i)(B);
(iv)  the following may not bill or maintain any action at law against an
enrollee to collect sums owed by the insolvent managed care organization or
the amount of the regular fee reduction authorized under Subsection
(1)(c)(i)(B):
(A)  a provider;
(B)  an agent;
(C)  a trustee; or
(D)  an assignee of a person described in Subsections (1)(c)(iv)(A) through
(C); and
(v)  notwithstanding Subsection (1)(c)(i):
(A)  a rehabilitator or liquidator may not reduce a fee by less than 75% of
the provider's regular fee set forth in the contract; and
(B)  the enrollee shall continue to pay the copayments, deductibles, and other
payments for services received from the provider that the enrollee was
required to pay before the filing of:
(I)  a petition for rehabilitation; or
(II)  a petition for liquidation.
(2) (a)  Subject to Subsections (2)(b) through (2)(f), an insurer using
preferred health care provider contracts shall pay for the services of health
care providers not under the contract, unless the illnesses or injuries
treated by the health care provider are not within the scope of the insurance
contract.  As used in this section, "class of health care providers" means all
health care providers licensed or licensed and certified by the state within
the same professional, trade, occupational, or facility licensure or licensure
and certification category established pursuant to Titles 26, Utah Health Code
and 58, Occupations and Professions.
(b) (i)  Until July 1, 2012, when the insured receives services from a health
care provider not under contract, the insurer shall reimburse the insured for
at least 75% of the average amount paid by the insurer for comparable services
of preferred health care providers who are members of the same class of health
care providers.
(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(b)(i), an insurer may offer a health plan
that complies with the provisions of Subsection 31A-22-618.5(3).
(iii)  The commissioner may adopt a rule dealing with the determination of
what constitutes 75% of the average amount paid by the insurer under
Subsection (2)(b)(i) for comparable services of preferred health care
providers who are members of the same class of health care providers.
(c)  When reimbursing for services of health care providers not under
contract, the insurer may make direct payment to the insured.
(d)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(b), an insurer using preferred health care
provider contracts may impose a deductible on coverage of health care
providers not under contract.
(e)  When selecting health care providers with whom to contract under
Subsection (1), an insurer may not unfairly discriminate between classes of
health care providers, but may discriminate within a class of health care
providers, subject to Subsection (7).
(f)  For purposes of this section, unfair discrimination between classes of
health care providers shall include:
(i)  refusal to contract with class members in reasonable proportion to the
number of insureds covered by the insurer and the expected demand for services
from class members; and
(ii)  refusal to cover procedures for one class of providers that are:
(A)  commonly utilized by members of the class of health care providers for
the treatment of illnesses, injuries, or conditions;
(B)  otherwise covered by the insurer; and
(C)  within the scope of practice of the class of health care providers.
(3)  Before the insured consents to the insurance contract, the insurer shall
fully disclose to the insured that it has entered into preferred health care
provider contracts.  The insurer shall provide sufficient detail on the
preferred health care provider contracts to permit the insured to agree to the
terms of the insurance contract.  The insurer shall provide at least the
following information:
(a)  a list of the health care providers under contract and if requested their
business locations and specialties;
(b)  a description of the insured benefits, including any deductibles,
coinsurance, or other copayments;
(c)  a description of the quality assurance program required under Subsection
(4); and
(d)  a description of the adverse benefit determination procedures required
under Subsection (5).
(4) (a)  An insurer using preferred health care provider contracts shall
maintain a quality assurance program for assuring that the care provided by
the health care providers under contract meets prevailing standards in the
state.
(b)  The commissioner in consultation with the executive director of the
Department of Health may designate qualified persons to perform an audit of
the quality assurance program.  The auditors shall have full access to all
records of the organization and its health care providers, including medical
records of individual patients.
(c)  The information contained in the medical records of individual patients
shall remain confidential.  All information, interviews, reports, statements,
memoranda, or other data furnished for purposes of the audit and any findings
or conclusions of the auditors are privileged.  The information is not subject
to discovery, use, or receipt in evidence in any legal proceeding except
hearings before the commissioner concerning alleged violations of this
section.
(5)  An insurer using preferred health care provider contracts shall provide a
reasonable procedure for resolving complaints and adverse benefit
determinations initiated by the insureds and health care providers.
(6)  An insurer may not contract with a health care provider for treatment of
illness or injury unless the health care provider is licensed to perform that
treatment.
(7) (a)  A health care provider or insurer may not discriminate against a
preferred health care provider for agreeing to a contract under Subsection
(1).
(b)  Any health care provider licensed to treat any illness or injury within
the scope of the health care provider's practice, who is willing and able to
meet the terms and conditions established by the insurer for designation as a
preferred health care provider, shall be able to apply for and receive the
designation as a preferred health care provider.  Contract terms and
conditions may include reasonable limitations on the number of designated
preferred health care providers based upon substantial objective and economic
grounds, or expected use of particular services based upon prior provider-
patient profiles.
(8)  Upon the written request of a provider excluded from a provider contract,
the commissioner may hold a hearing to determine if the insurer's exclusion of
the provider is based on the criteria set forth in Subsection (7)(b).
(9)  Insurers are subject to the provisions of Sections 31A-22-613.5,
31A-22-614.5, and 31A-22-618.
(10)  Nothing in this section is to be construed as to require an insurer to
offer a certain benefit or service as part of a health benefit plan.
(11)  This section does not apply to catastrophic mental health coverage
provided in accordance with Section 31A-22-625.
