31A-22-625.   Catastrophic coverage of mental health conditions.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a) (i)  "Catastrophic mental health coverage" means coverage in a health
benefit plan or health maintenance organization contract that does not impose
a lifetime limit, annual payment limit, episodic limit, inpatient or
outpatient service limit, or maximum out-of-pocket limit that places a greater
financial burden on an insured for the evaluation and treatment of a mental
health condition than for the evaluation and treatment of a physical health
condition.
(ii)  "Catastrophic mental health coverage" may include a restriction on cost
sharing factors, such as deductibles, copayments, or coinsurance, prior to
reaching any maximum out-of-pocket limit.
(iii)  "Catastrophic mental health coverage" may include one maximum out-of-
pocket limit for physical health conditions and another maximum out-of-pocket
limit for mental health conditions, provided that, if separate out-of-pocket
limits are established, the out-of-pocket limit for mental health conditions
may not exceed the out-of-pocket limit for physical health conditions.
(b) (i)  "50/50 mental health coverage" means coverage in a health benefit
plan or health maintenance organization contract that pays for at least 50% of
covered services for the diagnosis and treatment of mental health conditions.
(ii)  "50/50 mental health coverage" may include a restriction on episodic
limits, inpatient or outpatient service limits, or maximum out-of-pocket
limits.
(c)  "Large employer" is as defined in Section 31A-1-301.
(d) (i)  "Mental health condition" means any condition or disorder involving
mental illness that falls under any of the diagnostic categories listed in the
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, as periodically revised.
(ii)  "Mental health condition" does not include the following when diagnosed
as the primary or substantial reason or need for treatment:
(A)  marital or family problem;
(B)  social, occupational, religious, or other social maladjustment;
(C)  conduct disorder;
(D)  chronic adjustment disorder;
(E)  psychosexual disorder;
(F)  chronic organic brain syndrome;
(G)  personality disorder;
(H)  specific developmental disorder or learning disability; or
(I)  mental retardation.
(e)  "Small employer" is as defined in Section 31A-1-301.
(2) (a)  At the time of purchase and renewal, an insurer shall offer to each
small employer that it insures or seeks to insure a choice between
catastrophic mental health coverage and 50/50 mental health coverage.
(b)  In addition to Subsection (2)(a), an insurer may offer to provide:
(i)  catastrophic mental health coverage, 50/50 mental health coverage, or
both at levels that exceed the minimum requirements of this section; or
(ii)  coverage that excludes benefits for mental health conditions.
(c)  A small employer may, at its option, choose either catastrophic mental
health coverage, 50/50 mental health coverage, or coverage offered under
Subsection (2)(b), regardless of the employer's previous coverage for mental
health conditions.
(d)  An insurer is exempt from the 30% index rating restriction in Subsection
31A-30-106(1)(b) and, for the first year only that catastrophic mental health
coverage is chosen, the 15% annual adjustment restriction in Subsection
31A-30-106(1)(c)(ii), for any small employer with 20 or less enrolled
employees who chooses coverage that meets or exceeds catastrophic mental
health coverage.
(3) (a)  At the time of purchase and renewal of a health benefit plan, an
insurer shall offer catastrophic mental health coverage to each large employer
that it insures or seeks to insure.
(b)  In addition to Subsection (3)(a), an insurer may offer to provide
catastrophic mental health coverage at levels that exceed the minimum
requirements of this section.
(c)  A large employer may, at its option, choose either catastrophic mental
health coverage, coverage that excludes benefits for mental health conditions,
or coverage offered under Subsection (3)(b).
(4) (a)  An insurer may provide catastrophic mental health coverage through a
managed care organization or system in a manner consistent with the provisions
in Chapter 8, Health Maintenance Organizations and Limited Health Plans,
regardless of whether the policy or contract uses a managed care organization
or system for the treatment of physical health conditions.
(b) (i)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, an insurer may:
(A)  establish a closed panel of providers for catastrophic mental health
coverage; and
(B)  refuse to provide any benefit to be paid for services rendered by a
nonpanel provider unless:
(I)  the insured is referred to a nonpanel provider with the prior
authorization of the insurer; and
(II)  the nonpanel provider agrees to follow the insurer's protocols and
treatment guidelines.
(ii)  If an insured receives services from a nonpanel provider in the manner
permitted by Subsection (4)(b)(i)(B), the insurer shall reimburse the insured
for not less than 75% of the average amount paid by the insurer for comparable
services of panel providers under a noncapitated arrangement who are members
of the same class of health care providers.
(iii)  Nothing in this Subsection (4)(b) may be construed as requiring an
insurer to authorize a referral to a nonpanel provider.
(c)  To be eligible for catastrophic mental health coverage, a diagnosis or
treatment of a mental health condition must be rendered:
(i)  by a mental health therapist as defined in Section 58-60-102; or
(ii)  in a health care facility licensed or otherwise authorized to provide
mental health services pursuant to Title 26, Chapter 21, Health Care Facility
Licensing and Inspection Act, or Title 62A, Chapter 2, Licensure of Programs
and Facilities, that provides a program for the treatment of a mental health
condition pursuant to a written plan.
(5)  The commissioner may prohibit a policy or contract that provides mental
health coverage in a manner that is inconsistent with this section.
(6)  The commissioner shall:
(a)  adopt rules as necessary to ensure compliance with this section; and
(b)  provide general figures on the percentage of contracts and policies that
include no mental health coverage, 50/50 mental health coverage, catastrophic
mental health coverage, and coverage that exceeds the minimum requirements of
this section.
(7)  The Health and Human Services Interim Committee shall review:
(a)  the impact of this section on insurers, employers, providers, and
consumers of mental health services before January 1, 2004; and
(b)  make a recommendation as to whether the provisions of this section should
be modified and whether the cost-sharing requirements for mental health
conditions should be the same as for physical health conditions.
(8) (a)  An insurer shall offer catastrophic mental health coverage as part of
a health maintenance organization contract that is governed by Chapter 8,
Health Maintenance Organizations and Limited Health Plans, that is in effect
on or after January 1, 2001.
(b)  An insurer shall offer catastrophic mental health coverage as a part of a
health benefit plan that is not governed by Chapter 8, Health Maintenance
Organizations and Limited Health Plans, that is in effect on or after July 1,
2001.
(c)  This section does not apply to the purchase or renewal of an individual
insurance policy or contract.
(d)  Notwithstanding Subsection (8)(c), nothing in this section may be
construed as discouraging or otherwise preventing insurers from continuing to
provide mental health coverage in connection with an individual policy or
contract.
(9)  This section shall be repealed in accordance with Section 63I-1-231.
