31A-22-721.   A health benefit plan for a plan sponsor -- Discontinuance and
nonrenewal.
(1)  Except as otherwise provided in this section, a health benefit plan for a
plan sponsor is renewable and continues in force:
(a)  with respect to all eligible employees and dependents; and
(b)  at the option of the plan sponsor.
(2)  A health benefit plan for a plan sponsor may be discontinued or
nonrenewed:
(a)  for a network plan, if:
(i)  there is no longer any enrollee under the group health plan who lives,
resides, or works in:
(A)  the service area of the insurer; or
(B)  the area for which the insurer is authorized to do business; and
(ii)  in the case of the small employer market, the insurer applies the same
criteria the insurer would apply in denying enrollment in the plan under
Subsection 31A-30-108(7); or
(b)  for coverage made available in the small or large employer market only
through an association, if:
(i)  the employer's membership in the association ceases; and
(ii)  the coverage is terminated uniformly without regard to any health
status-related factor relating to any covered individual.
(3)  A health benefit plan for a plan sponsor may be discontinued if:
(a)  a condition described in Subsection (2) exists;
(b)  the plan sponsor fails to pay premiums or contributions in accordance
with the terms of the contract;
(c)  the plan sponsor:
(i)  performs an act or practice that constitutes fraud; or
(ii)  makes an intentional misrepresentation of material fact under the terms
of the coverage;
(d)  the insurer:
(i)  elects to discontinue offering a particular health benefit product
delivered or issued for delivery in this state;
(ii) (A)  provides notice of the discontinuation in writing:
(I)  to each plan sponsor, employee, and dependent of a plan sponsor or
employee; and
(II)  at least 90 days before the date the coverage will be discontinued;
(B)  provides notice of the discontinuation in writing:
(I)  to the commissioner; and
(II)  at least three working days prior to the date the notice is sent to the
affected plan sponsors, employees, and dependents of plan sponsors or
employees;
(C)  offers to each plan sponsor, on a guaranteed issue basis, the option to
purchase any other health benefit products currently being offered:
(I)  by the insurer in the market; or
(II)  in the case of a large employer, any other health benefit plan currently
being offered in that market; and
(D)  in exercising the option to discontinue that product and in offering the
option of coverage in this section, the insurer acts uniformly without regard
to:
(I)  the claims experience of a plan sponsor;
(II)  any health status-related factor relating to any covered participant or
beneficiary; or
(III)  any health status-related factor relating to a new participant or
beneficiary who may become eligible for coverage; or
(e)  the insurer:
(i)  elects to discontinue all of the insurer's health benefit plans:
(A)  in the small employer market; or
(B)  the large employer market; or
(C)  both the small and large employer markets;
(ii) (A)  provides notice of the discontinuance in writing:
(I)  to each plan sponsor, employee, or dependent of a plan sponsor or an
employee; and
(II)  at least 180 days before the date the coverage will be discontinued;
(B)  provides notice of the discontinuation in writing:
(I)  to the commissioner in each state in which an affected insured individual
is known to reside; and
(II)  at least 30 business days prior to the date the notice is sent to the
affected plan sponsors, employees, and dependents of a plan sponsor or
employee;
(C)  discontinues and nonrenews all plans issued or delivered for issuance in
the market; and
(D)  provides a plan of orderly withdrawal as required by Section 31A-4-115.
(4)  A large employer health benefit plan may be discontinued or nonrenewed:
(a)  if a condition described in Subsection (2) exists; or
(b)  for noncompliance with the insurer's:
(i)  minimum participation requirements; or
(ii)  employer contribution requirements.
(5)  A small employer health benefit plan may be discontinued or nonrenewed:
(a)  if a condition described in Subsection (2) exists; or
(b)  for noncompliance with the insurer's employer contribution requirements.
(6)  A small employer health benefit plan may be nonrenewed:
(a)  if a condition described in Subsection (2) exists; or
(b)  for noncompliance with the insurer's minimum participation requirements.
(7) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(d), an eligible employee may be
discontinued if after issuance of coverage the eligible employee:
(i)  engages in an act or practice that constitutes fraud in connection with
the coverage; or
(ii)  makes an intentional misrepresentation of material fact in connection
with the coverage.
(b)  An eligible employee that is discontinued under Subsection (7)(a) may
reenroll:
(i)  12 months after the date of discontinuance; and
(ii)  if the plan sponsor's coverage is in effect at the time the eligible
employee applies to reenroll.
(c)  At the time the eligible employee's coverage is discontinued under
Subsection (7)(a), the insurer shall notify the eligible employee of the right
to reenroll when coverage is discontinued.
(d)  An eligible employee may not be discontinued under this Subsection (7)
because of a fraud or misrepresentation that relates to health status.
(8) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (8)(b), an insurer that elects to
discontinue offering a health benefit plan under Subsection (3)(e) shall be
prohibited from writing new business in such market in this state for a period
of five years beginning on the date of discontinuation of the last coverage
that is discontinued.
(b)  The commissioner may waive the prohibition under Subsection (8)(a) when
the commissioner finds that waiver is in the public interest:
(i)  to promote competition; or
(ii)  to resolve inequity in the marketplace.
(9)  If an insurer is doing business in one established geographic service
area of the state, this section applies only to the insurer's operations in
that geographic service area.
(10)  An insurer may modify a health benefit plan for a plan sponsor only:
(a)  at the time of coverage renewal; and
(b)  if the modification is effective uniformly among all plans with a
particular product or service.
(11)  For purposes of this section, a reference to "plan sponsor" includes a
reference to the employer:
(a)  with respect to coverage provided to an employer member of the
association; and
(b)  if the health benefit plan is made available by an insurer in the
employer market only through:
(i)  an association;
(ii)  a trust; or
(iii)  a discretionary group.
(12) (a)  A small employer that, after purchasing a health benefit plan in the
small group market, employs on average more than 50 eligible employees on each
business day in a calendar year may continue to renew the health benefit plan
purchased in the small group market.
(b)  A large employer that, after purchasing a health benefit plan in the
large group market, employs on average less than 51 eligible employees on each
business day in a calendar year may continue to renew the health benefit plan
purchased in the large group market.
(13)  An insurer offering employer sponsored health benefit plans shall comply
with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, P. L. 104-191,
110 Stat. 1962, Sec. 2701 and 2702.
