31A-22-723.   Group and blanket conversion coverage.
(1)  Notwithstanding Subsection 31A-1-103(3)(f), and except as provided in
Subsection (3), all policies of accident and health insurance offered on a
group basis under this title, or Title 49, Chapter 20, Public Employees'
Benefit and Insurance Program Act, shall provide that a person whose insurance
under the group policy has been terminated is entitled to choose a converted
individual policy in accordance with this section and Section 31A-22-724.
(2)  A person who has lost group coverage may elect conversion coverage with
the insurer that provided prior group coverage if the person:
(a)  has been continuously covered for a period of three months by the group
policy or the group's preceding policies immediately prior to termination;
(b)  has exhausted either:
(i)  Utah mini-COBRA coverage as required in Section 31A-22-722;
(ii)  federal COBRA coverage; or
(iii)  alternative coverage under Section 31A-22-724;
(c)  has not acquired or is not covered under any other group coverage that
covers all preexisting conditions, including maternity, if the coverage
exists; and
(d)  resides in the insurer's service area.
(3)  This section does not apply if the person's prior group coverage:
(a)  is a stand alone policy that only provides one of the following:
(i)  catastrophic benefits;
(ii)  aggregate stop loss benefits;
(iii)  specific stop loss benefits;
(iv)  benefits for specific diseases;
(v)  accidental injuries only;
(vi)  dental; or
(vii)  vision;
(b)  is an income replacement policy;
(c)  was terminated because the insured:
(i)  failed to pay any required individual contribution;
(ii)  performed an act or practice that constitutes fraud in connection with
the coverage; or
(iii)  made intentional misrepresentation of material fact under the terms of
coverage; or
(d)  was terminated pursuant to Subsection 31A-8-402.3(2)(a),
31A-22-721(2)(a), or 31A-30-107(2)(a).
(4) (a)  The employer shall provide written notification of the right to an
individual conversion policy within 30 days of the insured's termination of
coverage to:
(i)  the terminated insured;
(ii)  the ex-spouse; or
(iii)  in the case of the death of the insured:
(A)  the surviving spouse; and
(B)  the guardian of any dependents, if different from a surviving spouse.
(b)  The notification required by Subsection (4)(a) shall:
(i)  be sent by first class mail;
(ii)  contain the name, address, and telephone number of the insurer that will
provide the conversion coverage; and
(iii)  be sent to the insured's last-known address as shown on the records of
the employer of:
(A)  the insured;
(B)  the ex-spouse; and
(C)  if the policy terminates by reason of the death of the insured to:
(I)  the surviving spouse; and
(II)  the guardian of any dependents, if different from a surviving spouse.
(5) (a)  An insurer is not required to issue a converted policy which provides
benefits in excess of those provided under the group policy from which
conversion is made.
(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (5)(c), if the conversion is made from a
health benefit plan, the employee or member shall be offered:
(i)  at least the basic benefit plan as provided in Section 31A-22-613.5
through December 31, 2009; and
(ii)  beginning January 1, 2010, only the alternative coverage as provided in
Subsection 31A-22-724(1)(a).
(c)  If the benefit levels required under Subsection (5)(b) exceed the benefit
levels provided under the group policy, the conversion policy may offer
benefits which are substantially similar to those provided under the group
policy.
(6)  Written application for the converted policy shall be made and the first
premium paid to the insurer no later than 60 days after termination of the
group accident and health insurance.
(7)  The converted policy shall be issued without evidence of insurability.
(8) (a)  The initial premium for the converted policy for the first 12 months
and subsequent renewal premiums shall be determined in accordance with premium
rates applicable to age, class of risk of the person, and the type and amount
of insurance provided.
(b)  The initial premium for the first 12 months may not be raised based on
pregnancy of a covered insured.
(c)  The premium for converted policies shall be payable monthly or quarterly
as required by the insurer for the policy form and plan selected, unless
another mode or premium payment is mutually agreed upon.
(9)  The converted policy becomes effective at the time the insurance under
the group policy terminates.
(10) (a)  A newly issued converted policy covers the employee or the member
and must also cover all dependents covered by the group policy at the date of
termination of the group coverage.
(b)  The only dependents that may be added after the policy has been issued
are children and dependents as required by Section 31A-22-610 and Subsections
31A-22-610.5(6) and (7).
(c)  At the option of the insurer, a separate converted policy may be issued
to cover any dependent.
(11) (a)  To the extent the group policy provided maternity benefits, the
conversion policy shall provide maternity benefits equal to the lesser of the
maternity benefits of the group policy or the conversion policy until
termination of a pregnancy that exists on the date of conversion if one of the
following is pregnant on the date of the conversion:
(i)  the insured;
(ii)  a spouse of the insured; or
(iii)  a dependent of the insured.
(b)  The requirements of this Subsection (11) do not apply to a pregnancy that
occurs after the date of conversion.
(12)  Except as provided in this Subsection (12), a converted policy is
renewable with respect to all individuals or dependents at the option of the
insured.  An insured may be terminated from a converted policy for the
following reasons:
(a)  a dependent is no longer eligible under the policy;
(b)  for a network plan, if the individual no longer lives, resides, or works
in:
(i)  the insured's service area; or
(ii)  the area for which the covered carrier is authorized to do business;
(c)  the individual fails to pay premiums or contributions in accordance with
the terms of the converted policy, including any timeliness requirements;
(d)  the individual performs an act or practice that constitutes fraud in
connection with the coverage;
(e)  the individual makes an intentional misrepresentation of material fact
under the terms of the coverage; or
(f)  coverage is terminated uniformly without regard to any health status-
related factor relating to any covered individual.
(13)  Conditions pertaining to health may not be used as a basis for
classification under this section.
(14)  An insurer is only required to offer a conversion policy that complies
with Subsection 31A-22-724(1)(b) and, notwithstanding Sections 31A-8-402.5 and
31A-30-107.1, may discontinue any other conversion policy if:
(a)  the discontinued conversion policy is discontinued uniformly without
regard to any health related factor;
(b)  any affected individual is provided with 90 days' advanced written notice
of the discontinuation of the existing conversion policy;
(c)  the policy holder is offered the insurer's conversion policy that
complies with Subsection 31A-22-724(1)(b); and
(d)  the policy holder is not re-rated for purposes of premium calculation.
