31A-22-1808.   Termination of or changes to portable electronics insurance.

Notwithstanding any other provision of law:

(1) (a)  An insurer may terminate or otherwise change the terms and conditions of a policy of portable electronics insurance only upon providing the policyholder and enrolled customers with at least 30 days notice.

(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a), an insurer may terminate an enrolled customer's enrollment under a portable electronics insurance policy upon 30 days notice for discovery of fraud or material misrepresentation in obtaining coverage or in the presentation of a claim under the portable electronics insurance policy.

(c)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a), an insurer may immediately terminate an enrolled customer's enrollment under a portable electronics insurance policy:

(i)  for nonpayment of premium;

(ii)  if the enrolled customer ceases to have an active service with the vendor of the portable electronics; or

(iii)  subject to Subsection (2), if the enrolled customer exhausts the aggregate limit of liability, if any, under the terms of the portable electronics insurance policy and the insurer sends notice of termination to the enrolled customer within 30 days after exhaustion of the limit.

(2)  If notice is not timely sent under Subsection (1)(c)(iii), enrollment shall continue notwithstanding the aggregate limit of liability until the insurer sends notice of termination to the enrolled customer.

(3)  If an insurer changes the terms and conditions of a portable electronics insurance policy, the insurer shall provide:

(a)  the vendor policyholder with a revised policy or endorsement; and

(b)  each enrolled customer with:

(i)  a revised certificate, endorsement, brochure, or other evidence indicating a change in the terms and conditions has occurred; and

(ii)  a summary of material changes.

(4)  When a vendor policyholder of a portable electronics insurance policy terminates the portable electronics insurance policy, the vendor policyholder shall mail or deliver written notice to each enrolled customer advising the enrolled customer of the termination of the portable electronics insurance policy and the effective date of termination.  The vendor shall mail or deliver the written notice to the enrolled customer at least 30 days before the termination.

(5) (a)  When notice or correspondence with respect to coverage under a policy of portable electronics insurance is required under this section or is otherwise required by law, the notice or correspondence shall be in writing and be mailed or delivered to the vendor at the vendor's mailing address and to its affected enrolled customers' last known mailing addresses on file with the insurer.

(b)  If mailed, the insurer or vendor, as the case may be, shall maintain proof of mailing in a form authorized or accepted by the United States Postal Service or other commercial mail delivery service.

(c)  An insurer or vendor policyholder may comply with this Subsection (5) by providing notice or correspondence to a vendor or its affected enrolled customers, as the case may be, by electronic means.  If accomplished through electronic means, the insurer or vendor, as the case may be, shall maintain proof that the notice or correspondence was sent.  For purposes of this Subsection (5)(c) and Title 46, Chapter 4, Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, the provision of an electronic mail address to an insurer or vendor by an enrolled customer is considered consent to receive notice and correspondence by electronic means as long as a disclosure to the effect is provided to the customer.

(6)  Notice or correspondence required by this section or otherwise required by law may be sent on behalf of an insurer or vendor by the supervising entity appointed by the insurer.

