78A-4-102.   Number of judges -- Terms -- Functions -- Filing fees.
(1)  The Court of Appeals consists of seven judges.  The term of appointment
to office as a judge of the Court of Appeals is until the first general
election held more than three years after the effective date of the
appointment.  Thereafter, the term of office of a judge of the Court of
Appeals is six years and commences on the first Monday in January, next
following the date of election.  A judge whose term expires may serve, upon
request of the Judicial Council, until a successor is appointed and qualified.
The presiding judge of the Court of Appeals shall receive as additional
compensation $1,000 per annum or fraction thereof for the period served.
(2)  The Court of Appeals shall sit and render judgment in panels of three
judges.  Assignment to panels shall be by random rotation of all judges of the
Court of Appeals.  The Court of Appeals by rule shall provide for the
selection of a chair for each panel.  The Court of Appeals may not sit en
banc.
(3)  The judges of the Court of Appeals shall elect a presiding judge from
among the members of the court by majority vote of all judges.  The term of
office of the presiding judge is two years and until a successor is elected.
A presiding judge of the Court of Appeals may serve in that office no more
than two successive terms.  The Court of Appeals may by rule provide for an
acting presiding judge to serve in the absence or incapacity of the presiding
judge.
(4)  The presiding judge may be removed from the office of presiding judge by
majority vote of all judges of the Court of Appeals.  In addition to the
duties of a judge of the Court of Appeals, the presiding judge shall:
(a)  administer the rotation and scheduling of panels;
(b)  act as liaison with the Supreme Court;
(c)  call and preside over the meetings of the Court of Appeals; and
(d)  carry out duties prescribed by the Supreme Court and the Judicial
Council.
(5)  Filing fees for the Court of Appeals are the same as for the Supreme
Court.
