13-14a-1.   Definitions.
(1) (a)  "Dealer" means any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the
business of selling and retailing farm equipment, implements, utility and
light industrial equipment, attachments, or repair parts, and includes
retailers of yard and garden equipment not primarily engaged in the farm
equipment business.
(b)  "Dealer" does not include:
(i)  a person who is engaged in the business of sales and service of heavy
industrial or construction equipment; or
(ii)  a person, firm, or corporation who serves as the dealer for a membership
group purchasing program.
(2)  "Independent wholesaler" means a person, firm, or corporation who stocks
inventory for resale to retail dealers and who holds title to that inventory.
(3)  "Manufacturer" means any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the
business of manufacturing and distributing for retail sale farm implements,
machinery, utility and light industrial equipment, attachments, or repair
parts, and includes manufacturers of yard and garden equipment not primarily
intended for farm use.
(4)  "Parts inventory" means repair parts held for resale and used to service
farm implements, machinery, attachments, utility and light industrial
equipment, and yard and garden equipment.
(5)  "Sales agreement" means a written, verbal, or implied on-going agreement
between a dealer and a manufacturer or wholesaler under which the dealer
agrees to sell at retail those items supplied by the manufacturer or
wholesaler.  "Sales agreement" can include an assignment of an exclusive sales
area by the manufacturer or wholesaler or the filing of UCC security documents
by the manufacturer or wholesaler.
(6)  "Wholegoods" or "wholegoods inventory" means assembled or complete units
of farm implements, machinery, utility and light industrial equipment, and
yard and garden equipment and includes assembled or complete attachments.
(7)  "Wholesaler" as an entity's business or as the context requires may mean:
(a)  an independent wholesaler engaged in the business of distributing for
retail sale the items listed in Subsection (4)  or (6),  that is obligated
under Section 13-14a-2 to accept new and unsold wholegoods and parts from
retailers on behalf of the manufacturer, but the obligation of the wholesaler
may not exceed the obligation of the manufacturer; or
(b)  a dealer, as defined in Subsection (1), who in addition to retailing
distributes equipment at the wholesale level.
