70A-5-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Adviser" means a person who, at the request of the issuer, a confirmer,
or another adviser, notifies or requests another adviser to notify the
beneficiary that a letter of credit has been issued, confirmed, or amended.
(2)  "Applicant" means a person at whose request or for whose account a letter
of credit is issued.  The term includes a person who requests an issuer to
issue a letter of credit on behalf of another if the person making the request
undertakes an obligation to reimburse the issuer.
(3)  "Beneficiary" means a person who under the terms of a letter of credit is
entitled to have its complying presentation honored.  The term includes a
person to whom drawing rights have been transferred under a transferable
letter of credit.
(4)  "Confirmer" means a nominated person who undertakes, at the request or
with the consent of the issuer, to honor a presentation under a letter of
credit issued by another.
(5)  "Dishonor" of a letter of credit means failure timely to honor or to take
an interim action, such as acceptance of a draft, that may be required by the
letter of credit.
(6)  "Document" means a draft or other demand, document of title, investment
security, certificate, invoice, or other record, statement, or representation
of fact, law, right, or opinion:
(a)  which is presented in a written or other medium permitted by the letter
of credit or, unless prohibited by the letter of credit, by the standard
practice referred to in Subsection 70A-5-108(5); and
(b)  which is capable of being examined for compliance with the terms and
conditions of the letter of credit.  A document may not be oral.
(7)  "Good faith" means honesty in fact in the conduct or transaction
concerned.
(8)  "Honor" of a letter of credit means performance of the issuer's
undertaking in the letter of credit to pay or deliver an item of value.
Unless the letter of credit otherwise provides, "honor" occurs:
(a)  upon payment;
(b)  if the letter of credit provides for acceptance, upon acceptance of a
draft and, at maturity, its payment; or
(c)  if the letter of credit provides for incurring a deferred obligation,
upon incurring the obligation and, at maturity, its performance.
(9)  "Issuer" means a bank or other person that issues a letter of credit, but
does not include an individual who makes an engagement for personal, family,
or household purposes.
(10)  "Letter of credit" means a definite undertaking that satisfies the
requirements of Section 70A-5-104 by an issuer to a beneficiary at the request
or for the account of an applicant or, in the case of a financial institution,
to itself or for its own account, to honor a documentary presentation by
payment or delivery of an item of value.
(11)  "Nominated person" means a person whom the issuer:
(a) designates or authorizes to pay, accept, negotiate, or otherwise give
value under a letter of credit; and
(b) undertakes by agreement or custom and practice to reimburse.
(12)  "Presentation" means delivery of a document to an issuer or nominated
person for honor or giving of value under a letter of credit.
(13)  "Presenter" means a person making a presentation as or on behalf of a
beneficiary or nominated person.
(14)  "Record" means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium, or
that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in
perceivable form.
(15)  "Successor of a beneficiary" means a person who succeeds to
substantially all of the rights of a beneficiary by operation of law,
including a corporation with or into which the beneficiary has been merged or
consolidated, an administrator, executor, personal representative, trustee in
bankruptcy, debtor in possession, liquidator, and receiver.
