70A-5-114.   Assignment of proceeds.
(1)  In this section, "proceeds of a letter of credit" means the cash, check,
accepted draft, or other item of value paid or delivered upon honor or giving
of value by the issuer or any nominated person under the letter of credit.
The term does not include a beneficiary's drawing rights or documents
presented by the beneficiary.
(2)  A beneficiary may assign its right to part or all of the proceeds of a
letter of credit.  The beneficiary may do so before presentation as a present
assignment of its right to receive proceeds contingent upon its compliance
with the terms and conditions of the letter of credit.
(3)  An issuer or nominated person need not recognize an assignment of
proceeds of a letter of credit until it consents to the assignment.
(4)  An issuer or nominated person has no obligation to give or withhold its
consent to an assignment of proceeds of a letter of credit, but consent may
not be unreasonably withheld if the assignee possesses and exhibits the letter
of credit and presentation of the letter of credit is a condition to honor.
(5)  Rights of a transferee beneficiary or nominated person are independent of
the beneficiary's assignment of the proceeds of a letter of credit and are
superior to the assignee's right to the proceeds.
(6)  Neither the rights recognized by this section between an assignee and an
issuer, transferee beneficiary, or nominated person nor the issuer's or
nominated person's payment of proceeds to an assignee or a third person affect
the rights between the assignee and any person other than the issuer,
transferee beneficiary, or nominated person.  The mode of creating and
perfecting a security interest in or granting an assignment of a beneficiary's
rights to proceeds is governed by Title 70A, Chapter 9a, Uniform Commercial
Code -- Secured Transactions, or other law.  Against persons other than the
issuer, transferee beneficiary, or nominated person, the rights and
obligations arising upon the creation of a security interest or other
assignment of a beneficiary's right to proceeds and its perfection are
governed by Title 70A, Chapter 9a, Uniform Commercial Code -- Secured
Transactions, or other law.
