57-11-5.   Registration, public offering statement, and receipt required for sale of subdivided land -- Temporary permit -- Right of rescission.

Unless the subdivided lands or the transaction is exempt under Section 57-11-4, all of the following apply:

(1)  No person may offer or dispose of any interest in subdivided lands located in this state nor offer or dispose in this state of any interest in subdivided lands located outside of this state prior to the time the subdivided lands are registered in accordance with this chapter.

(2)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1), the division may grant a temporary permit allowing the developer to begin a sales program while the registration is in process.  In order to obtain a temporary permit the developer must:

(a)  submit an application to the division for a temporary permit in the form required by the division;

(b)  submit a substantially complete application for registration to the division, including all appropriate fees and exhibits required under Sections 57-11-6 and 57-11-7 in addition to a temporary permit fee of $100;

(c)  provide evidence acceptable to the division that all funds received by the developer or marketing agent will be placed into an independent escrow with instructions that funds will not be released until a final registration has been granted;

(d)  give to each purchaser and potential purchaser a copy of the proposed property report which the developer has submitted to the division with the original application; and

(e)  give to each purchaser the opportunity to rescind the purchase in accordance with this section.  The purchaser must be granted an additional opportunity to rescind upon the issuance of an approved registration if the division determines that there is a substantial difference in the disclosures contained in the final property report and those given to the purchaser in the proposed property report.

(3)  Any contract or agreement of disposition for an interest in subdivided lands may be rescinded by the purchaser without cause by midnight of the fifth calendar day after the execution of the contract or agreement of disposition.  This right of rescission may not be waived by agreement.  The contract or agreement of disposition shall state in boldface type on the signature page above all signatures: YOU HAVE THE OPTION TO CANCEL YOUR CONTRACT OR AGREEMENT OF DISPOSITION BY NOTICE TO THE SELLER UNTIL MIDNIGHT OF THE FIFTH CALENDAR DAY FOLLOWING THE SIGNING OF THE CONTRACT OR AGREEMENT.  WRITTEN NOTICE OF CANCELLATION MUST BE PERSONALLY DELIVERED OR SENT BY CERTIFIED MAIL, POSTMARKED BY MIDNIGHT OF THE FIFTH CALENDAR DAY FOLLOWING THE SIGNING OF THE CONTRACT OR AGREEMENT, TO THE SELLER AT: (Address of Seller).

(4)  No person may dispose of any interest in subdivided lands without delivering to the purchaser an effective, current public offering statement and obtaining a dated, signed receipt for the public offering statement in a form to be approved by the division from each purchaser.  The subdivider shall retain each receipt for two years from the date of its execution.  All receipts shall be made available for inspection upon request by the division.  Failure to comply with this subsection shall not constitute a cause of action under Section 57-11-17 but shall be grounds for appropriate action by the division under Sections 57-11-13 and 57-11-14.

