77-19-202.   Incompetency or pregnancy of person sentenced to death --
Procedures.
(1)  If, after judgment of death, the executive director of the Department of
Corrections has good reason to believe that an inmate sentenced to death is
pregnant, or has good reason to believe that an inmate's competency to be
executed under this chapter should be addressed by a court, the executive
director of the Department of Corrections or the executive director's designee
shall immediately give written notice to the court in which the judgment of
death was rendered, to the prosecuting attorney, and counsel for the inmate.
The judgment shall be stayed pending further order of the court.
(2) (a)  On receipt of the notice under Subsection (1) of good reason for the
court to address an inmate's competency to be executed, the court shall order
that the mental condition of the inmate shall be examined under the provisions
of Section 77-19-204.
(b)  If the inmate is found incompetent, the court shall immediately transmit
a certificate of the findings to the Board of Pardons and Parole and continue
the stay of execution pending further order of the court.
(c)  If the inmate is subsequently found competent at any time, the judge
shall immediately transmit a certificate of the findings to the Board of
Pardons and Parole, and shall draw and have delivered another warrant under
Section 77-19-6, together with a copy of the certificate of the findings.  The
warrant shall state an appointed day on which the judgment is to be executed,
which may not be fewer than 30 nor more than 60 days from the date of the
drawing of the warrant, and which may not be a Sunday, Monday, or a legal
holiday, as defined in Section 63G-1-301.
(3) (a)  If the court finds the inmate is pregnant, it shall immediately
transmit a certificate of the finding to the Board of Pardons and Parole and
to the executive director of the Department of Corrections or the executive
director's designee, and the court shall issue an order staying the execution
of the judgment of death during the pregnancy.
(b)  When the court determines the inmate is no longer pregnant, it shall
immediately transmit a certificate of the finding to the Board of Pardons and
Parole and draw and have delivered another warrant under Section 77-19-6, with
a copy of the certificate of the finding.  The warrant shall state an
appointed day on which the judgment is to be executed, which may not be fewer
than 30 nor more than 60 days from the date of the drawing of the warrant, and
which may not be a Sunday, Monday, or a legal holiday, as defined in Section
63G-1-301.
(4)  The Department of Corrections shall determine the hour, within the
appointed day, at which the judgment is to be executed.
