9-4-304.   Permanent Community Impact Fund Board created -- Members -- Terms
-- Chair -- Expenses.
(1)  There is created within the Department of Community and Culture the
Permanent Community Impact Fund Board composed of 11 members as follows:
(a)  the chair of the Board of Water Resources or the chair's designee;
(b)  the chair of the Water Quality Board or the chair's designee;
(c)  the director of the department or the director's designee;
(d)  the state treasurer;
(e)  the chair of the Transportation Commission or the chair's designee;
(f)  a locally elected official who resides in Carbon, Emery, Grand, or San
Juan County;
(g)  a locally elected official who resides in Juab, Millard, Sanpete, Sevier,
Piute, or Wayne County;
(h)  a locally elected official who resides in Duchesne, Daggett, or Uintah
County;
(i)  a locally elected official who resides in Beaver, Iron, Washington,
Garfield, or Kane County; and
(j)  a locally elected official from each of the two counties that produced
the most mineral lease money during the previous four-year period, prior to
the term of appointment, as determined by the Department of Community and
Culture.
(2) (a)  The members specified under Subsections (1)(f) through (j) may not
reside in the same county and shall be:
(i)  nominated by the Board of Directors of the Southeastern Association of
Governments, Central Utah Association of Governments, Uintah Basin Association
of Governments, and Southwestern Association of Governments, respectively,
except that a member under Subsection (1)(j) shall be nominated by the Board
of Directors of the Association of Governments from the region of the state in
which the county is located; and
(ii)  appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate.
(b)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(c), as terms of current board
members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(c)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(b), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(d)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(3)  The terms of office for the members of the impact board specified under
Subsections (1)(a) through (1)(e) shall run concurrently with the terms of
office for the councils, boards, committees, commission, departments, or
offices from which the members come.
(4)  The executive director of the department, or the executive director's
designee, shall be the chair of the impact board.
(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
