9-4-307.   Impact fund administered by impact board -- Eligibility for
assistance -- Review by board -- Administration costs -- Annual report.
(1) (a)  The impact board shall:
(i)  administer the impact fund in a manner that will keep a portion of the
impact fund revolving;
(ii)  determine provisions for repayment of loans; and
(iii)  establish criteria for determining eligibility for assistance under
this part.
(b) (i)  Criteria for awarding loans or grants made from funds described in
Subsection 9-4-303(5) shall be consistent with Subsection 9-4-303(5).
(ii)  Criteria for awarding grants made from funds described in Subsection
9-4-303 (2)(c) shall be consistent with Subsection 9-4-303(6).
(c)  In order to receive assistance under this part, subdivisions and
interlocal agencies shall submit formal applications containing the
information that the impact board requires.
(2)  In determining eligibility for loans and grants under this part, the
impact board shall consider the following:
(a)  the subdivision's or interlocal agency's current mineral lease
production;
(b)  the feasibility of the actual development of a resource that may impact
the subdivision or interlocal agency directly or indirectly;
(c)  current taxes being paid by the subdivision's or interlocal agency's
residents;
(d)  the borrowing capacity of the subdivision or interlocal agency, its
ability and willingness to sell bonds or other securities in the open market,
and its current and authorized indebtedness;
(e)  all possible additional sources of state and local revenue, including
utility user charges;
(f)  the availability of federal assistance funds;
(g)  probable growth of population due to actual or prospective natural
resource development in an area;
(h)  existing public facilities and services;
(i)  the extent of the expected direct or indirect impact upon public
facilities and services of the actual or prospective natural resource
development in an area; and
(j)  the extent of industry participation in an impact alleviation plan,
either as specified in Title 63M, Chapter 5, Resource Development, or
otherwise.
(3)  The impact board may not fund any education project that could otherwise
have reasonably been funded by a school district through a program of annual
budgeting, capital budgeting, bonded indebtedness, or special assessments.
(4)  The impact board may restructure all or part of the agency's or
subdivision's liability to repay loans for extenuating circumstances.
(5)  The impact board shall:
(a)  review the proposed uses of the impact fund for loans or grants before
approving them and may condition its approval on whatever assurances that the
impact board considers to be necessary to ensure that the proceeds of the loan
or grant will be used in accordance with the Leasing Act and this part; and
(b)  ensure that each loan specifies the terms for repayment and is evidenced
by general obligation, special assessment, or revenue bonds, notes, or other
obligations of the appropriate subdivision or interlocal agency issued to the
impact board under whatever authority for the issuance of those bonds, notes,
or obligations exists at the time of the loan.
(6)  The impact board shall allocate from the impact fund to the department
those funds that are appropriated by the Legislature for the administration of
the impact fund, but this amount may not exceed 2% of the annual receipts to
the impact fund.
(7)  The department shall make an annual report to the Legislature concerning
the number and type of loans and grants made as well as a list of subdivisions
and interlocal agencies that received this assistance.
