9-4-505.   Allocation of volume cap.
(1) (a)  Subject to Subsection (1)(b), the volume cap for each year shall be
distributed by the board of review to the various allotment accounts as set
forth in Section 9-4-506.
(b)  The board of review may distribute up to 50% of each increase in the
volume cap that occurs after March 11, 1999, for use in development that
occurs in quality growth areas, depending upon the board's analysis of the
relative need for additional volume cap between development in quality growth
areas and the allotment accounts under Section 9-4-506.
(2)  To obtain an allocation of the volume cap, issuing authorities shall
submit to the board of review an application containing information required
by the procedures and processes of the board of review.
(3)  The board of review shall establish criteria for making allocations of
volume cap that are consistent with the purposes of the code and this part.
In making an allocation of volume cap the board of review shall consider the
following:
(a)  the principal amount of the bonds proposed to be issued;
(b)  the nature and the location of the project or the type of program;
(c)  the likelihood that the bonds will be sold and the timeframe of bond
issuance;
(d)  whether the project or program could obtain adequate financing without an
allocation of volume cap;
(e)  the degree to which an allocation of volume cap is required for the
project or program to proceed or continue;
(f)  the social, health, economic, and educational effects of the project or
program on the local community and state as a whole;
(g)  the anticipated economic development created or retained within the local
community and the state as a whole;
(h)  the anticipated number of jobs, both temporary and permanent, created or
retained within the local community and the state as a whole;
(i)  if the project is a residential rental project, the degree to which the
residential rental project:
(i)  targets lower income populations;
(ii)  is accessible housing; and
(j)  whether the project meets the principles of quality growth recommended by
the Quality Growth Commission created under Section 11-38-201.
(4)  The board of review shall evidence an allocation of volume cap by issuing
a certificate in accordance with Section 9-4-507.
(5) (a)  From January 1 to June 30, the board shall set aside at least 50% of
the Small Issue Bond Account that may be allocated only to manufacturing
projects.
(b)  From July 1 to August 15, the board shall set aside at least 50% of the
Pool Account that may be allocated only to manufacturing projects.
