9-4-507.   Certificates of allocation.
(1) (a)  After an allocation of volume cap for a project or program is
approved by the board of review a numbered certificate of allocation shall be
issued stating the amount of the allocation, the allotment account for which
the allocation is being made, and the expiration date of the allocation.
(b)  The certificates of allocation shall be mailed to the issuing authority
within ten working days of the date of approval.
(c)  No bonds are entitled to any allocation of the volume cap unless the
issuing authority received a certificate of allocation with respect to the
bonds.
(d)  Certificates of allocation shall remain in effect for a period of 90 days
from the date of approval.  If bonds for which a certificate has been approved
are not issued within the 90-day period, the certificate of allocation is void
and volume cap shall be returned to the applicable allotment account for
reallocation by the board of review.
(2) (a)  An issuing authority receiving an allocation of volume cap from the
Carryforward Account shall receive a certificate of allocation similar to the
certificates of allocation described in Subsection (1) from the board of
review stating the amount of allocation from the Carryforward Account that
have been allocated to the issuing authority and the expiration of the
allocation.
(b)  If in the judgment of the board of review any issuing authority or any
person or entity responsible for a project or program receiving an allocation
from the Carryforward Account does not proceed with diligence in providing for
the issuance of the bonds with respect to the project or program, and because
of the lack of such diligence the volume cap cannot be used, the board of
review may exclude from its consideration for a given period of time,
determined by the board of review, applications of these issuing authorities
or persons or entities.  The board of review may, at any time, review and
modify its decisions relating to this exclusion.
