9-4-602.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Area of operation" means:
(a)  in the case of an authority of a city, the city, except that the area of
operation of an authority of any city does not include any area that lies
within the territorial boundaries of some other city; or
(b)  in the case of an authority of a county, all of the county for which it
is created except, that a county authority may not undertake any project
within the boundaries of any city unless a resolution has been adopted by the
governing body of the city (and by any authority which shall have been
theretofore established and authorized to exercise its powers in the city)
declaring that there is need for the county authority to exercise its powers
within that city.
(2)  "Blighted area" means any area where dwellings predominate that, by
reason of dilapidation, overcrowding, faulty arrangement or design, lack of
ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities or any combination of these
factors, are detrimental to safety, health, and morals.
(3)  "Bonds" means any bonds, notes, interim certificates, debentures, or
other obligations issued by an authority pursuant to this part.
(4)  "City" means any city or town in the state.
(5)  "Clerk" means the city clerk or the county clerk, or the officer charged
with the duties customarily imposed on the clerk.
(6)  "County" means any county in the state.
(7)  "Elderly" means a person who meets the age, disability, or other
conditions established by regulation of the authority.
(8)  "Federal government" includes the United States of America, the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, or any other agency or
instrumentality, corporate or otherwise, of the United States.
(9)  "Governing body" means, in the case of a city, the council or other body
of the city in which is vested legislative authority customarily imposed on
the city council, and in the case of a county, the board of county
commissioners.
(10)  "Housing authority" or "authority" means any public body corporate and
politic created by this part.
(11) (a)  "Housing project" or "project" means any work or undertaking, on
contiguous or noncontiguous sites to:
(i)  demolish, clear, or remove buildings from any blighted area;
(ii)  provide or assist in providing decent, safe, and sanitary urban or rural
dwellings, apartments, or other living accommodations for persons of medium
and low income by any suitable methods, including rental, sale of individual
units in single or multifamily structures under conventional condominium,
cooperative sales contract, lease-purchase agreement, loans, or subsidizing of
rentals or charges; or
(iii)  accomplish a combination of the foregoing.
(b)  "Housing project" includes:
(i)  buildings, land, equipment, facilities, and other real or personal
property for necessary, convenient, or desirable appurtenances;
(ii)  streets, sewers, water service, utilities, parks, site preparation and
landscaping;
(iii)  facilities for administrative, community, health, recreational,
welfare, or other purposes;
(iv)  the planning of the buildings and other improvements;
(v)  the acquisition of property or any interest therein;
(vi)  the demolition of existing structures;
(vii)  the construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair
of the improvements and all other work in connection with them; and
(viii)  all other real and personal property and all tangible or intangible
assets held or used in connection with the housing project.
(12)  "Major disaster" means any flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake,
storm, or other catastrophe which in the determination of the governing body
is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant the use of available
resources of the federal, state, and local governments to alleviate the
damage, hardship, or suffering caused.
(13)  "Mayor" means the mayor of the city or the officer charged with the
duties customarily imposed on the mayor or executive head of a city.
(14)  "Obligee of an authority" or "obligee" includes any bondholder, agent or
trustee for any bondholder, any lessor demising to the authority used in
connection with a project, any assignee or assignees of the lessor's interest
in whole or in part, and the federal government when it is a party to any
contract with the authority.
(15)  "Persons of medium and low income" mean persons or families who, as
determined by the authority undertaking a project, cannot afford to pay the
amounts at which private enterprise, unaided by appropriate assistance, is
providing a substantial supply of decent, safe and sanitary housing.
(16)  "Person with a disability" means a person with any disability as defined
by and covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C.
12102.
(17)  "Public body" means any city, county or municipal corporation,
commission, district, authority, agency, subdivision, or other body of any of
the foregoing.
(18)  "Real property" includes all lands, improvements, and fixtures on them,
property of any nature appurtenant to them or used in connection with them,
and every estate, interest, and right, legal or equitable, including terms for
years.
