9-4-618.   Bonds authorized -- Payment -- Security -- Liability -- Purpose
-- Exemption from taxes except corporate franchise tax.
(1)  An authority may:
(a)  issue bonds from time to time for any of its corporate purposes;
(b)  issue refunding bonds for the purpose of paying or retiring bonds
previously issued by it;
(c)  issue bonds on which the principal and interest are payable:
(i)  exclusively from the income and revenues of the project financed with the
proceeds of the bonds;
(ii)  exclusively from the income and revenues of certain designated projects,
whether or not they are financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of the
bonds; or
(iii)  from its revenues generally.
(2)  Any bonds issued by the authority may be additionally secured by a pledge
of any loan, grant, or contributions, in whole or in part, from the federal
government or other source, or a pledge of any income or revenues of the
authority.
(3)  The members of an authority and any person executing the bonds are not
liable personally on the bonds.
(4)  The bonds and other obligations of an authority are not a debt of the
city, county, state, or any political subdivision, and do not constitute
indebtedness for purposes of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation
or restrictions.  This shall be stated on the face of the bonds and other
obligations.
(5)  The city, county, state, or political subdivision is not liable on the
bonds or other obligations.
(6)  These bonds or obligations may not be payable out of any funds or
properties other than those of the authority.
(7)  Bonds of an authority are declared to be issued for an essential public
and governmental purpose and to be public instrumentalities and, together with
interest and income, are exempt from all taxes, except the corporate franchise
tax.
(8)  The provisions of this part exempting from taxation the properties of an
authority and its bonds and interests and income on them shall be considered
part of the contract for the security of bonds and have the force of contract,
by virtue of this part and without the necessity of this being restated in the
bonds, between the bondholders, including all transferees of the bonds, on the
one hand and an authority and the state on the other.
