9-4-801.   Creation.

(1)  There is created the Homeless Coordinating Committee.

(2) (a)  The committee shall consist of:

(i)  the lieutenant governor or the lieutenant governor's designee;

(ii)  the state planning coordinator or the coordinator's designee;

(iii)  the state superintendent of public instruction or the superintendent's designee;

(iv)  the chair of the board of trustees of the Utah Housing Corporation or the chair's designee; and

(v)  the executive directors of the Department of Human Services, the Department of Corrections, the Department of Community and Culture, the Department of Workforce Services, and the Department of Health, or their designees.

(b) (i)  The lieutenant governor shall serve as the chair of the committee.

(ii)  The lieutenant governor may appoint a vice chair from among committee members, who shall conduct committee meetings in the absence of the lieutenant governor.

(3)  The governor may appoint as members of the committee representatives of local governments, local housing authorities, local law enforcement agencies, and of federal and private agencies and organizations concerned with the homeless, persons with a mental illness, the elderly, single-parent families, substance abusers, and persons with a disability.

(4) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (4)(b), as terms of current committee members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (4)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.

(c)  A person appointed under this Subsection (4) may not be appointed to serve more than three consecutive terms.

(5)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement is appointed for the unexpired term.

(6)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

