9-4-802.   Purposes of Homeless Coordinating Committee -- Uses of Pamela
Atkinson Homeless Account.
(1) (a)  The Homeless Coordinating Committee shall work to ensure that
services provided to the homeless by state agencies, local governments, and
private organizations are provided in a cost-effective manner.
(b)  Programs funded by the committee shall emphasize emergency housing and
self-sufficiency, including placement in meaningful employment or occupational
training activities and, where needed, special services to meet the unique
needs of the homeless who have families with children, or who are mentally
ill, disabled, or suffer from other serious challenges to employment and self-
sufficiency.
(c)  The committee may also fund treatment programs to ameliorate the effects
of substance abuse or a disability.
(2)  The committee members designated in Subsection 9-4-801(2) shall:
(a)  award contracts funded by the Pamela Atkinson Homeless Account with the
advice and input of those designated in Subsection 9-4-801(3);
(b)  consider need, diversity of geographic location, coordination with or
enhancement of existing services, and the extensive use of volunteers; and
(c)  give priority for funding to programs that serve the homeless who are
mentally ill and who are in families with children.
(3) (a)  In any fiscal year, no more than 80% of the funds in the Pamela
Atkinson Homeless Account may be allocated to organizations that provide
services only in Salt Lake, Davis, Weber, and Utah Counties.
(b)  The committee may:
(i)  expend up to 3% of its annual appropriation for administrative costs
associated with the allocation of funds from the Pamela Atkinson Homeless
Account, and up to 2% of its annual appropriation for marketing the account
and soliciting donations to the account; and
(ii)  pay for the initial costs of the State Tax Commission in implementing
Section 59-10-1306 from the account.
(4) (a)  The committee may not expend, except as provided in Subsection
(4)(b), an amount equal to the greater of $50,000 or 20% of the amount donated
to the Pamela Atkinson Homeless Account during fiscal year 1988-89.
(b)  If there are decreases in contributions to the account, the committee may
expend funds held in the account to provide program stability, but the
committee shall reimburse the amounts of those expenditures to the account.
(5)  The committee shall make an annual report to the Economic Development and
Human Resources Appropriations Subcommittee regarding the programs and
services funded by contributions to the Pamela Atkinson Homeless Account.
(6)  The money in the Pamela Atkinson Homeless Account shall be invested by
the state treasurer according to the procedures and requirements of Title 51,
Chapter 7, State Money Management Act, except that all interest or other
earnings derived from the restricted account shall be deposited in the
restricted account.
