9-4-903.   Definitions.
As used in this part the following words and terms have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)  "Bonds," "notes," and "other obligations" mean any bonds, notes,
debentures, interim certificates, or other evidences of financial indebtedness
of the corporation authorized to be issued under the provisions of this part.
(2)  "Construction loan" means a short-term advance of money for the purpose
of constructing residential housing for low and moderate income persons.
(3)  "Corporation" means the Utah Housing Corporation created by Section
9-4-904, which, prior to July 1, 2001, was named the Utah Housing Finance
Agency.
(4)  "Employee of the corporation" means any individual who is employed by the
corporation but who is not a trustee of the corporation.
(5)  "Financial assistance" includes:
(a)  a loan, whether interest or noninterest bearing, secured or unsecured;
(b)  a loan that converts to a grant upon the occurrence of specified
conditions;
(c)  a development loan;
(d)  a grant;
(e)  an award;
(f)  a subsidy;
(g)  a guarantee;
(h)  a warranty;
(i)  a lease;
(j)  a payment on behalf of a borrower of an amount usually paid by a
borrower, including a down payment;
(k)  any other form of financial assistance that helps provide affordable
housing for low and moderate income persons; or
(l)  any combination of the foregoing.
(6)  "Housing development" means a residential housing project, which includes
residential housing for low and moderate income persons.
(7)  "Housing sponsor" includes a person who constructs, develops,
rehabilitates, purchases, or owns a housing development that is or will be
subject to legally enforceable restrictive covenants that require the housing
development to provide, at least in part, residential housing to low and
moderate income persons, including a local public body, a nonprofit, limited
profit, or for profit corporation, a limited partnership, a limited liability
company, a joint venture, a subsidiary of the corporation, or any subsidiary
of the subsidiary, a cooperative, a mutual housing organization, or any other
type of entity or arrangement that helps provide affordable housing for low
and moderate income persons.
(8)  "Interest rate contract" means interest rate exchange contracts, interest
rate floor contracts, interest rate ceiling contracts, and other similar
contracts authorized in a resolution or policy adopted or approved by the
trustees.
(9)  "Local public body" means the state, any municipality, county, district,
or other subdivision or instrumentality of the state, including redevelopment
agencies and housing authorities created under Part 6.
(10)  "Low and moderate income persons" means persons, irrespective of race,
religion, creed, national origin, or sex, as determined by the corporation to
require such assistance as is made available by this part on account of
insufficient personal or family income taking into consideration factors,
including:
(a)  the amount of income that persons and families have available for housing
needs;
(b)  the size of family;
(c)  whether or not a person is a single head of household;
(d)  the cost and condition of residential housing available; and
(e)  the ability of persons and families to compete successfully in the normal
private housing market and to pay the amounts at which private enterprise is
providing decent, safe, and sanitary housing.
(11)  "Mortgage lender" means any bank, trust company, savings and loan
association, credit union, mortgage banker, or other financial institution
authorized to transact business in the state, any local public body, or any
other entity, profit or nonprofit, that makes mortgage loans.
(12)  "Mortgage loan" means a loan secured by a mortgage, which loan may bear
interest at either a fixed or variable rate or which may be noninterest
bearing, the proceeds of which are used for the purpose of financing the
construction, development, rehabilitation, or purchase of residential housing
for low and moderate income persons, including low and moderate income persons
who are first-time homebuyers, single heads of household, elderly, homeless,
or disabled.
(13)  "Mortgage" means a mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument securing
a mortgage loan and constituting a lien on real property (the property being
held in fee simple or on a leasehold under a lease having a remaining term, at
the time the mortgage is acquired, of not less than the term for repayment of
the mortgage loan secured by  the mortgage) improved or to be improved by
residential housing, creating a lien which may be first priority or
subordinate.
(14)  "Rehabilitation" includes the reconstruction, rehabilitation,
improvement, and repair of residential housing.
(15)  "Residential housing" means a specific work or improvement within this
state undertaken primarily to provide dwelling accommodations, including land,
buildings, and improvements to land and buildings, whether in one to four
family units or multifamily units, and other incidental or appurtenant
nonhousing facilities, or as otherwise specified by the agency.
(16)  "State" means the state of Utah.
(17)  "State housing credit ceiling" means the amount specified in Subsection
42(h)(3)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code for each calendar year.
