9-4-1409.   Qualified Emergency Food Agencies Fund -- Expenditure of
revenues.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Association of governments" means the following created under the
authority of Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act:
(i)  an association of governments; or
(ii)  a regional council that acts as an association of governments.
(b)  "Food and food ingredients" is as defined in Section 59-12-102.
(c)  "Pounds of food donated" means the aggregate number of pounds of food and
food ingredients that are donated:
(i)  to a qualified emergency food agency; and
(ii)  by a person, other than an organization that as part of its activities
operates a program that has as the program's primary purpose to:
(A)  warehouse and distribute food to other agencies and organizations
providing food and food ingredients to low-income persons; or
(B)  provide food and food ingredients directly to low-income persons.
(d)  "Qualified emergency food agency" means an organization that:
(i)  is:
(A)  exempt from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3), Internal
Revenue Code; or
(B)  an association of governments;
(ii)  as part of its activities operates a program that has as the program's
primary purpose to:
(A)  warehouse and distribute food to other agencies and organizations
providing food and food ingredients to low-income persons; or
(B)  provide food and food ingredients directly to low-income persons; and
(iii)  the office determines to be a qualified emergency food agency.
(2)  There is created a restricted special revenue fund known as the Qualified
Emergency Food Agencies Fund.
(3) (a)  The Qualified Emergency Food Agencies Fund shall be funded by the
sales and use tax revenues described in:
(i)  Section 59-12-103;
(ii)  Section 59-12-204; and
(iii)  Section 59-12-1102.
(b)  Any interest earned on the Qualified Emergency Food Agencies Fund shall
be deposited into the General Fund.
(4)  The office shall for a fiscal year distribute monies deposited into the
Qualified Emergency Food Agencies Fund to qualified emergency food agencies
within the state as provided in this section.
(5)  A qualified emergency food agency shall file an application with the
office before the qualified emergency food agency may receive a distribution
under this section.
(6)  Except as provided in Subsection (7), the office shall for a fiscal year
distribute to a qualified emergency food agency an amount equal to the product
of:
(a)  the pounds of food donated to the qualified emergency food agency during
that fiscal year; and
(b)  $.12.
(7)  If the monies deposited into the Qualified Emergency Food Agencies Fund
are insufficient to make the distributions required by Subsection (6), the
office shall make distributions to qualified emergency food agencies in the
order that the office receives applications from the qualified emergency food
agencies until all of the monies deposited into the Qualified Emergency Food
Agencies Fund for the fiscal year are expended.
(8)  A qualified emergency food agency may expend a distribution received in
accordance with this section only for a purpose related to:
(a)  warehousing and distributing food and food ingredients to other agencies
and organizations providing food and food ingredients to low-income persons;
or
(b)  providing food and food ingredients directly to low-income persons.
(9)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the Division of Housing and Community Development may make rules
providing procedures for implementing the distributions required by this
section, including:
(a)  standards for determining and verifying the amount of a distribution that
a qualified emergency food agency may receive;
(b)  procedures for a qualified emergency food agency to apply for a
distribution, including the frequency with which a qualified emergency food
agency may apply for a distribution; and
(c)  consistent with Subsection (1)(d), determining whether an entity is a
qualified emergency food agency.
