63H-1-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Authority" means the Military Installation Development Authority,
created under Section 63H-1-201.
(2)  "Base taxable value" means the taxable value of the property within any
portion of the project area, as designated by board resolution, from which tax
increment will be collected, as shown upon the assessment roll last equalized
before the year in which the authority issues a certificate of occupancy for a
building within that portion of the project area.
(3)  "Board" means the governing body of the authority created under Section
63H-1-301.
(4)  "Dedicated supplemental tax increment" means supplemental tax increment
that results from a property tax levied by:
(a)  a county, including any district the county has established under
Subsection 17-34-3(2) to levy a property tax under Title 17, Chapter 34,
Municipal-Type Services to Unincorporated Areas; or
(b)  an included municipality.
(5)  "Development project" means a project to develop land within a project
area.
(6)  "Elected member" means a member of the authority board who:
(a)  is a mayor appointed under Subsection 63H-1-302(2)(b); or
(b) (i)  is appointed to the authority board under Subsection 63H-1-302(2)(a)
or (3); and
(ii)  concurrently serves in an elected state, county, or municipal office.
(7)  "Included municipality" means a municipality, some or all of which is
included within a project area.
(8)  "Military land" means any land or facility, including any leased land or
facility, that is part of a base, camp, post, station, yard, center, or
installation under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Defense or the
Utah National Guard.
(9)  "Municipal energy tax" means a municipal energy sales and use tax under
Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 3, Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act.
(10)  "Municipal services revenue" means revenue that the authority:
(a)  collects from the authority's:
(i)  levy of a municipal energy tax;
(ii)  levy of a telecommunications tax; and
(iii)  imposition of a transient room tax;
(b)  receives under Subsection 59-12-205(2)(b)(ii); and
(c)  receives as dedicated supplemental tax increment.
(11)  "Municipal tax" means a municipal energy tax, telecommunications tax, or
transient room tax.
(12)  "Project area" means the land, including military land, whether
consisting of a single contiguous area or multiple noncontiguous areas,
described in a project area plan or draft project area plan where the
development project set forth in the project area plan or draft project area
plan takes place or is proposed to take place.
(13)  "Project area budget" means a multiyear projection of annual or
cumulative revenues and expenses and other fiscal matters pertaining to a
project area that includes:
(a)  the base taxable value of property in the project area;
(b)  the projected tax increment expected to be generated within the project
area;
(c)  the amount of tax increment expected to be shared with other taxing
entities;
(d)  the amount of tax increment expected to be used to implement the project
area plan, including the estimated amount of tax increment to be used for land
acquisition, public improvements, infrastructure improvements, and loans,
grants, or other incentives to private and public entities;
(e)  the tax increment expected to be used to cover the cost of administering
the project area plan;
(f)  if tax increment is to be collected at different times or from different
portions of the project area, or both:
(i) (A)  the tax identification numbers of the parcels from which tax
increment will be collected; or
(B)  a legal description of the portion of the project area from which tax
increment will be collected; and
(ii)  an estimate of when other portions of the project area will become
subject to tax increment collection; and
(g)  for property that the authority owns or leases and expects to sell or
sublease, the expected total cost of the property to the authority and the
expected selling price or lease payments.
(14)  "Project area plan" means a written plan that, after its effective date,
guides and controls the development within a project area.
(15)  "Property tax" includes privilege tax and each levy on an ad valorem
basis on tangible or intangible personal or real property.
(16)  "Public entity" means:
(a)  the state, including any of its departments or agencies; or
(b)  a political subdivision of the state, including a county, city, town,
school district, local district, special service district, or interlocal
cooperation entity.
(17)  "Publicly owned infrastructure and improvements" means water, sewer,
storm drainage, electrical, telecommunications, and other similar systems and
lines, streets, roads, curb, gutter, sidewalk, walkways, parking facilities,
public transportation facilities, and other buildings, facilities,
infrastructure, and improvements benefitting the public and to be publicly
owned or publicly maintained or operated.
(18)  "Remaining municipal services revenue" means municipal services revenue
that the authority has not spent during its fiscal year for municipal services
as provided in Subsection 63H-1-503(1).
(19)  "Supplemental tax increment" means tax increment remaining after the
authority is paid the tax increment it is entitled to receive under Subsection
63H-1-501(1).
(20)  "Taxable value" means the value of property as shown on the last
equalized assessment roll as certified by the county assessor.
(21)  "Tax increment" means the difference between:
(a)  the amount of property tax revenues generated each tax year by all taxing
entities from the area within a project area designated in the project area
plan as the area from which tax increment is to be collected, using the
current assessed value of the property; and
(b)  the amount of property tax revenues that would be generated from that
same area using the base taxable value of the property.
(22)  "Taxing entity" means a public entity that levies a tax on property
within a project area.
(23)  "Telecommunications tax" means a telecommunications license tax under
Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 4, Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act.
(24)  "Transient room tax" means a tax under Section 59-12-352.
