63H-1-302.   Number of board members -- Appointment.

(1)  The authority's board shall consist of seven members.

(2)  Five members of the board shall be appointed by the governor as follows:

(a)  one member shall be appointed who is interested in supporting military efforts in the state;

(b)  subject to Subsection (4)(d), three members shall be appointed, each of whom is a mayor or member of the legislative body of a municipality or county that is adjacent or in close proximity to a project area or proposed project area; and

(c)  one member shall be appointed from the executive branch or a state agency that is involved with military issues.

(3)  The president of the Senate and the speaker of the House of Representatives shall each appoint one board member.

(4) (a)  Each vacancy shall be filled in the same manner under this section as the appointment of the member whose vacancy is being filled.

(b)  Each person appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve the remaining unexpired term of the member whose vacancy the person is filling.

(c)  If a mayor or member of a legislative body appointed under Subsection (2)(b) leaves office as mayor or a member of the legislative body, a vacancy on the board occurs and the governor shall appoint another mayor or member of a legislative body, as provided in Subsection (2)(b), to fill the vacancy.

(d)  If there are more than three project areas located in different counties or municipalities, at the expiration of a member's term who is appointed under Subsection (2)(b), the governor shall appoint:

(i)  a mayor of a municipality or county that:

(A)  is adjacent to or in close proximity to a project area; and

(B)  is not already represented on the board; or

(ii)  a member of a legislative body of a municipality or county that:

(A)  is adjacent to or in close proximity to a project area; and

(B)  is not already represented on the board.

(e)  A member of the board appointed by the governor, president of the Senate, or speaker of the House of Representatives serves at the pleasure of and may be removed and replaced at any time, with or without cause, by the governor, president of the Senate, or speaker of the House of Representatives, respectively.

(5)  The authority may:

(a)  appoint nonvoting members of the board; and

(b)  set terms for nonvoting members appointed under Subsection (5)(a).



Amended by Chapter 362, 2013 General Session

