63H-1-701.   Annual authority budget -- Fiscal year -- Public hearing required -- Auditor forms -- Requirement to file form.

(1)  The authority shall prepare and its board adopt an annual budget of revenues and expenditures for the authority for each fiscal year.

(2)  Each annual authority budget shall be adopted before June 22.

(3)  The authority's fiscal year shall be the period from July 1 to the following June 30.

(4) (a)  Before adopting an annual budget, the authority board shall hold a public hearing on the annual budget.

(b)  The authority shall provide notice of the public hearing on the annual budget by:

(i)  publishing notice:

(A)  at least once in a newspaper of general circulation within the authority boundaries, one week before the public hearing; and

(B) on the Utah Public Notice Website created in Section 63F-1-701, for at least one week immediately before the public hearing; or

(ii)  if there is no newspaper of general circulation within the authority boundaries as described in Subsection (4)(a)(i)(A), posting a notice of the public hearing in at least three public places within the authority boundaries.

(c)  The authority shall make the annual budget available for public inspection at least three days before the date of the public hearing.

(5)  The state auditor shall prescribe the budget forms and the categories to be contained in each authority budget, including:

(a)  revenues and expenditures for the budget year;

(b)  legal fees; and

(c)  administrative costs, including rent, supplies, and other materials, and salaries of authority personnel.

(6) (a)  Within 30 days after adopting an annual budget, the authority board shall file a copy of the annual budget with the auditor of the county in which the authority is located, the State Tax Commission, the state auditor, the State Board of Education, and each taxing entity that levies a tax on property from which the authority collects tax increment.

(b)  The requirement of Subsection (6)(a) to file a copy of the annual budget with the state as a taxing entity is met if the authority files a copy with the State Tax Commission and the state auditor.



Amended by Chapter 90, 2010 General Session

