19-1-403.   Clean Fuels and Vehicle Technology Fund -- Contents -- Loans or grants made with fund money.

(1) (a)  There is created a revolving fund known as the Clean Fuels and Vehicle Technology Fund.

(b)  The fund consists of:

(i)  appropriations to the fund;

(ii)  other public and private contributions made under Subsection (1)(d);

(iii)  interest earnings on cash balances; and

(iv)  all money collected for loan repayments and interest on loans.

(c)  All money appropriated to the fund is nonlapsing.

(d)  The department may accept contributions from other public and private sources for deposit into the fund.

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3), the department may make a loan or a grant with money available in the fund for:

(i)  the conversion of a private sector business vehicle or a government vehicle to use a clean fuel, if certified by the Air Quality Board under Subsection 19-1-405(1)(a);

(ii)  the purchase of:

(A)  an OEM vehicle for use as a private sector business vehicle or government vehicle; or

(B)  a vehicle, certified by the Air Quality Board under Subsection 19-1-405(1)(d), for use as a private sector business vehicle or government vehicle;

(iii)  the retrofit, certified by the Air Quality Board under Subsection 19-1-405(1)(d), of a private sector business vehicle or government vehicle;

(iv)  a fuel system, certified by the Air Quality Board under Subsection 19-1-405(1)(d), for a private sector business vehicle or government vehicle; or

(v)  a state match of a federal or nonfederal grant for any item under this Subsection (2)(a).

(b)  The amount of a loan for any vehicle under Subsection (2)(a)(i) or (2)(a)(ii)(A) may not exceed:

(i)  the actual cost of the vehicle conversion;

(ii)  the incremental cost of purchasing the OEM vehicle; or

(iii)  the cost of purchasing the OEM vehicle if there is no documented incremental cost.

(c)  The amount of a grant for any vehicle under Subsection (2)(a)(i) or (2)(a)(ii)(A) may not exceed:

(i)  50% of the actual cost of the vehicle conversion minus the amount of any tax credit claimed under Section 59-7-605 or 59-10-1009 for the vehicle for which a grant is requested; or

(ii)  50% of the incremental cost of purchasing an OEM vehicle minus the amount of any tax credit claimed under Section 59-7-605 or 59-10-1009 for the vehicle for which a grant is requested.

(d) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (3) and subject to the availability of money in the fund, the department may make a loan for the purchase of vehicle refueling equipment for a private sector business vehicle or a government vehicle.

(ii)  The maximum amount loaned per installation of refueling equipment may not exceed the actual cost of the refueling equipment.

(iii)  Except as provided in Subsection (3) and subject to the availability of money in the fund, the department may make a grant for a state match of a federal or nonfederal grant for the purchase of vehicle refueling equipment for a private sector business vehicle or a government vehicle.

(3)  The department may not make a loan or grant under this part for an electric-hybrid vehicle.

(4)  The department may:

(a)  reimburse itself for the costs incurred in administering the fund from:

(i)  the fund; or

(ii)  application fees; and

(b)  establish an application fee for a loan or grant from the fund by following the procedures and requirements of Section 63J-1-504.

(5) (a)  The fund balance may not exceed $10,000,000.

(b)  Interest on cash balances and repayment of loans in excess of the amount necessary to maintain the fund balance at $10,000,000 shall be deposited in the General Fund.

(6) (a)  Loans made from money in the fund shall be supported by loan documents evidencing the intent of the borrower to repay the loan.

(b)  The original loan documents shall be filed with the Division of Finance and a copy shall be filed with the department.

