76-1-202.   Venue of actions.
(1)  Criminal actions shall be tried in the county, district, or precinct
where the offense is alleged to have been committed.  In determining the
proper place of trial, the following provisions shall apply:
(a)  If the commission of an offense commenced outside the state is
consummated within this state, the offender shall be tried in the county where
the offense is consummated.
(b)  When conduct constituting elements of an offense or results that
constitute elements, whether the conduct or result constituting elements is in
itself unlawful, shall occur in two or more counties, trial of the offense may
be held in any of the counties concerned.
(c)  If a person committing an offense upon the person of another is located
in one county and his victim is located in another county at the time of the
commission of the offense, trial may be held in either county.
(d)  If a cause of death is inflicted in one county and death ensues in
another county, the offender may be tried in either county.
(e)  A person who commits an inchoate offense may be tried in any county in
which any act that is an element of the offense, including the agreement in
conspiracy, is committed.
(f)  Where a person in one county solicits, aids, abets, agrees, or attempts
to aid another in the planning or commission of an offense in another county,
he may be tried for the offense in either county.
(g)  When an offense is committed within this state and it cannot be readily
determined in which county or district the offense occurred, the following
provisions shall be applicable:
(i)  When an offense is committed upon any railroad car, vehicle, watercraft,
or aircraft passing within this state, the offender may be tried in any county
through which such railroad car, vehicle, watercraft, or aircraft has passed.
(ii)  When an offense is committed on any body of water bordering on or within
this state, the offender may be tried in any county adjacent to such body of
water.  The words "body of water" shall include but not be limited to any
stream, river, lake, or reservoir, whether natural or man-made.
(iii)  A person who commits theft may be tried in any county in which he
exerts control over the property affected.
(iv)  If an offense is committed on or near the boundary of two or more
counties, trial of the offense may be held in any of such counties.
(v)  For any other offense, trial may be held in the county in which the
defendant resides, or, if he has no fixed residence, in the county in which he
is apprehended or to which he is extradited.
(h)  A person who commits an offense based on Chapter 6, Part 11, Identity
Fraud Act, may be tried in the county:
(i)  where the victim's personal identifying information was obtained;
(ii)  where the defendant used or attempted to use the personally identifying
information;
(iii)  where the victim of the identity fraud resides or is found; or
(iv)  if multiple offenses of identity fraud occur in multiple jurisdictions,
in any county where the victim's identity was used or obtained, or where the
victim resides or is found.
(2)  All objections of improper place of trial are waived by a defendant
unless made before trial.
