53A-20c-102.   Energy Efficiency Fund -- Contents -- Use of fund monies.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Board" means the Board of the Utah Geological Survey.
(b)  "Energy code" means the energy efficiency code adopted by the Division of
Occupational and Professional Licensing under Section 58-56-4.
(c)  "Energy efficiency project" means:
(i)  for existing buildings, a retrofit to improve energy efficiency; or
(ii)  for new buildings, an enhancement to improve energy efficiency beyond
the minimum required by the energy code.
(d)  "Fund" means the Energy Efficiency Fund created by this part.
(2)  There is created a revolving loan fund known as the Energy Efficiency
Fund.
(3)  The fund shall consist of:
(a)  monies appropriated to it by the Legislature;
(b)  monies received for the repayment of loans made from the fund;
(c)  monies made available to the state for energy efficiency from any source;
and
(d)  interest earned on the fund.
(4) (a)  The board shall make loans from the fund only to school districts to
finance energy efficiency projects in school district buildings, including
paying the costs of construction, engineering, investigation, inspection, and
other related expenses.
(b)  The board may not:
(i)  make loans from the fund to finance a school district's compliance with
the energy code in the construction of a new building;
(ii)  make a loan from the fund with a term of less than two years or more
than 12 years; or
(iii)  make loans from the fund to any entity other than a school district.
(5) (a) (i)  Each school district seeking a loan shall submit an application
to the board in the form and containing the information that the board
requires, which shall include the plans and specifications for the proposed
energy efficiency project.
(ii)  In the application, the school district may request a loan to cover all
or part of the cost of an energy efficiency project.
(b)  If an application is rejected, the board shall notify the applicant
stating the reasons for the rejection.
(6) (a)  By following the procedures and requirements of Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the board shall make rules establishing
criteria for:
(i)  determining eligibility for loans; and
(ii)  determining appropriate priorities among projects.
(b)  In making rules governing determining priorities for eligible projects,
the board may consider:
(i)  possible additional sources of revenue;
(ii)  the feasibility and practicality of the project;
(iii)  the energy savings attributable to an eligible energy efficiency
project;
(iv)  the annual energy cost savings attributable to an eligible energy
efficiency project;
(v)  the projected energy cost payback of an eligible energy efficiency
project;
(vi)  the financial need of the public facility owner;
(vii)  the environmental and other benefits to the state and local community
attributable to an eligible energy efficiency project; and
(viii)  the availability of federal funds for the project.
(7) (a)  In approving a project, the board shall:
(i)  review the loan application and the plans and specifications for the
project;
(ii)  determine whether or not to grant the loan by applying its eligibility
criteria; and
(iii)  if the loan is granted, prioritize the project by applying its priority
criteria.
(b)  The board may condition approval of a loan request and the availability
of funds on assurances from the school district that the board considers
necessary to ensure that:
(i)  the proceeds of the loan will be used to pay the cost of the project; and
(ii)  the project will be completed.
(8)  Employees of the state energy program shall serve as staff to the board
when it performs the duties established in this section.
