77-37-3.   Bill of rights.

(1)  The bill of rights for victims and witnesses is:

(a)  Victims and witnesses have a right to be informed as to the level of protection from intimidation and harm available to them, and from what sources, as they participate in criminal justice proceedings as designated by Section 76-8-508, regarding witness tampering, and Section 76-8-509, regarding threats against a victim.  Law enforcement, prosecution, and corrections personnel have the duty to timely provide this information in a form which is useful to the victim.

(b)  Victims and witnesses, including children and their guardians, have a right to be informed and assisted as to their role in the criminal justice process.  All criminal justice agencies have the duty to provide this information and assistance.

(c)  Victims and witnesses have a right to clear explanations regarding relevant legal proceedings; these explanations shall be appropriate to the age of child victims and witnesses.  All criminal justice agencies have the duty to provide these explanations.

(d)  Victims and witnesses should have a secure waiting area that does not require them to be in close proximity to defendants or the family and friends of defendants.  Agencies controlling facilities shall, whenever possible, provide this area.

(e)  Victims may seek restitution or reparations, including medical costs, as provided in Title 63M, Chapter 7, Criminal Justice and Substance Abuse, and Sections 62A-7-109.5, 77-38a-302, and 77-27-6.  State and local government agencies that serve victims have the duty to have a functional knowledge of the procedures established by the Crime Victim Reparations Board and to inform victims of these procedures.

(f)  Victims and witnesses have a right to have any personal property returned as provided in Sections 77-24-1 through 77-24-5.  Criminal justice agencies shall expeditiously return the property when it is no longer needed for court law enforcement or prosecution purposes.

(g)  Victims and witnesses have the right to reasonable employer intercession services, including pursuing employer cooperation in minimizing employees' loss of pay and other benefits resulting from their participation in the criminal justice process.  Officers of the court shall provide these services and shall consider victims' and witnesses' schedules so that activities which conflict can be avoided.  Where conflicts cannot be avoided, the victim may request that the responsible agency intercede with employers or other parties.

(h)  Victims and witnesses, particularly children, should have a speedy disposition of the entire criminal justice process.  All involved public agencies shall establish policies and procedures to encourage speedy disposition of criminal cases.

(i)  Victims and witnesses have the right to timely notice of judicial proceedings they are to attend and timely notice of cancellation of any proceedings.  Criminal justice agencies have the duty to provide these notifications.  Defense counsel and others have the duty to provide timely notice to prosecution of any continuances or other changes that may be required.

(j)  Victims of sexual offenses have a right to be informed of their right to request voluntary testing for themselves for HIV infection as provided in Section 76-5-503 and to request mandatory testing of the alleged sexual offender for HIV infection as provided in Section 76-5-502.  The law enforcement office where the sexual offense is reported shall have the responsibility to inform victims of this right.

(2)  Informational rights of the victim under this chapter are based upon the victim providing the victim's current address and telephone number to the criminal justice agencies involved in the case.



Amended by Chapter 177, 2011 General Session

