77-37-4.   Additional rights -- Children.
In addition to all rights afforded to victims and witnesses under this
chapter, child victims and witnesses shall be afforded these rights:
(1)  Children have the right to protection from physical and emotional abuse
during their involvement with the criminal justice process.
(2)  Children are not responsible for inappropriate behavior adults commit
against them and have the right not to be questioned, in any manner, nor to
have allegations made, implying this responsibility.  Those who interview
children have the responsibility to consider the interests of the child in
this regard.
(3)  Child victims and witnesses have the right to have interviews relating to
a criminal prosecution kept to a minimum.  All agencies shall coordinate
interviews and ensure that they are conducted by persons sensitive to the
needs of children.
(4)  Child victims have the right to be informed of available community
resources that might assist them and how to gain access to those resources.
Law enforcement and prosecutors have the duty to ensure that child victims are
informed of community resources, including counseling prior to the court
proceeding, and have those services available throughout the criminal justice
process.
(5)  Child victims have the right, once an investigation has been initiated by
law enforcement or the Division of Child and Family Services, to have their
investigative interviews that are conducted at a Children's Justice Center,
including both video and audio recordings, protected.  Except as provided in
Subsection (5)(b) and (c), interviews may not be distributed, released, or
displayed to anyone without a court order.
(a)  The court order:
(i)  shall describe with particularity to whom the interview may be released
and prohibit further distribution or viewing by anyone not named in the order;
and
(ii)  may impose restrictions on access to the materials considered reasonable
to protect the privacy of the child victim.
(b)  Following the conclusion of any legal proceedings in which the recordings
or transcripts are used, the court shall order the recordings and transcripts
in the court's file sealed and preserved.
(c) (i)  The Division of Child and Family Services or law enforcement may
distribute a copy of the interview:
(A)  to the prosecutor's office;
(B)  the Attorney General's child protection division;
(C)  to another law enforcement agency; and
(D)  to the attorney for the child who is the subject of the interview.
(ii)  Any further distribution, release, or display is subject to this
Subsection (5).
(d)  In a criminal case, the prosecutor may distribute a copy of the interview
to the attorney for the defendant or a pro se defendant pursuant to a valid
request for discovery.  The attorney for the defendant in a criminal case may
permit the defendant to view the interview, but may not distribute or release
the interview to their client.  Any further distribution, release, or display
is subject to this Subsection (5).
(e)  Pro se defendants shall be advised by the court that an interview
received as part of discovery is confidential and may not be distributed,
released, or displayed without prior authorization from the court.  A court's
failure to give this notice may not be used as a defense to prosecution for a
violation of the disclosure rule.
(f)  Multidisciplinary teams or other state agencies that provide services to
children and families may view interviews of children, and families for whom
they are providing services, but may not receive copies.
(g)  Violation of this section is:
(i)  punishable by contempt if distribution, release, or display occurs before
the resolution of the case and the court still has jurisdiction over the
defendant; or
(ii)  a class B misdemeanor if the case has been resolved and the court no
longer has jurisdiction over the defendant.
