77-37-5.   Remedies -- District Victims' Rights Committee.
(1)  In each judicial district, the Utah Council on Victims of Crime,
established in Section 63M-7-601, shall appoint a person who shall chair a
judicial district victims' rights committee consisting of:
(a)  a county attorney or district attorney;
(b)  a sheriff;
(c)  a corrections field services administrator;
(d)  an appointed victim advocate;
(e)  a municipal attorney;
(f)  a municipal chief of police; and
(g)  other representatives as appropriate.
(2)  The committee shall meet at least semiannually to review progress and
problems related to this chapter, Title 77, Chapter 38, Rights of Crime
Victims Act, Title 77, Chapter 38a, Crime Victims Restitution Act, and Utah
Constitution Article I, Section 28.  Victims and other interested parties may
submit matters of concern to the victims' rights committee.  The committee may
hold a hearing open to the public on any appropriate matter of concern and may
publish its findings.  These matters shall also be considered at the meetings
of the victims' rights committee.  The committee shall forward minutes of all
meetings to the Utah Council on Victims of Crime for review and other
appropriate action.
(3)  If a victims' rights committee is unable to resolve a complaint, it may
refer the complaint to the Utah Council on Victims of Crime.
(4)  The Office of Crime Victim Reparations shall provide materials to local
law enforcement to inform every victim of a sexual offense of the right to
request testing of the convicted sexual offender and of the victim as provided
in Section 76-5-502.
(5) (a)  If a person acting under color of state law willfully or wantonly
fails to perform duties so that the rights in this chapter are not provided,
an action for injunctive relief may be brought against the individual and the
government entity that employs the individual.
(b)  For all other violations, if the committee finds a violation of a
victim's right, it shall refer the matter to the appropriate court for further
proceedings consistent with Subsection 77-38-11(2).
(c)  The failure to provide the rights in this chapter or Title 77, Chapter
38, Rights of Crime Victims Act, does not constitute cause for a judgment
against the state or any government entity, or any individual employed by the
state or any government entity, for monetary damages, attorney fees, or the
costs of exercising any rights under this chapter.
(6)  The person accused of and subject to prosecution for the crime or the act
which would be a crime if committed by a competent adult, has no standing to
make a claim concerning any violation of the provisions of this chapter.
