70C-4-102.   Change of terms of open-end consumer credit contracts.
(1)  For purposes of this section, "change" includes to add, delete, or
otherwise change a term of an open-end consumer credit contract.
(2) (a)  Notwithstanding Section 25-5-4, a creditor may change any written
term of an open-end consumer credit contract at any time while the open-end
consumer credit contract is in effect and apply the new term to the unpaid
balance in the account if:
(i)  the creditor mails or delivers written notice of the change:
(A)  to all other parties to the open-end consumer credit contract that may be
affected by the change; and
(B)  in a manner consistent with the provisions in effect on the day on which
the notice is given of the Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 1601 et
seq., and its implementing Regulation Z; and
(ii)  the open-end consumer credit contract expressly provides that the
creditor may change terms of the open-end consumer credit contract from time
to time.
(b)  A creditor may change an open-end consumer credit contract in accordance
with this section to include arbitration or other alternative dispute
resolution mechanism.
(3)  If the creditor has taken a security interest in any real property of the
debtor to secure payment of the debt, and if the term to be changed affects
the method for calculating minimum payments, or is part of the finance charge,
the creditor may apply the new term to an account balance relating to a credit
transaction that occurred prior to the effective date of the change only if:
(a)  the debtor expressly so agrees after notice of the change has been given
by the creditor; or
(b) (i)  the creditor notifies the debtor that:
(A)  further extensions of credit will not be permitted unless the debtor
agrees that the new term may be applied to an existing account balance; and
(B)  any future charges to the account will constitute agreement; and
(ii)  the debtor makes a charge to the account after receiving notice
described in Subsection (3)(b)(i).
(4)  Notice under this section is not required when:
(a)  the change involves:
(i)  late payment charges;
(ii)  charges for documentary evidence;
(iii)  over-the-limit charges;
(iv)  a reduction of any component of a finance or other charge;
(v)  suspension of future credit privileges; or
(vi)  termination of an account or plan; or
(b)  other than an increase in the periodic rate or other finance charge, the
change results from:
(i)  an agreement involving:
(A)  a court proceeding;
(B)  an arbitration proceeding; or
(C)  another alternative dispute resolution proceeding; or
(ii)  the consumer's default or delinquency.
(5) (a)  The actual unpaid balance of the account at any point in time is not
a term of the open-end consumer credit contract for purposes of this section.
(b)  With regard to a variable or adjustable interest rate, a periodic change
in the applicable rate is not a change subject to this section if no term of
the open-end consumer credit contract pertaining to calculation of the
applicable rate is changed.
(6) (a)  A creditor may include a notice required by this section of a change
to an open-end consumer credit contract on or in the same envelope as a
periodic statement or other material sent to the borrower by the creditor.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (6)(a), a creditor is not required to include
a notice required by this section with any other material sent to the
borrower.
