63G-3-301.   Rulemaking procedure.
(1)  An agency authorized to make rules is also authorized to amend or repeal
those rules.
(2)  Except as provided in Sections 63G-3-303 and 63G-3-304, when making,
amending, or repealing a rule agencies shall comply with:
(a)  the requirements of this section;
(b)  consistent procedures required by other statutes;
(c)  applicable federal mandates; and
(d)  rules made by the division to implement this chapter.
(3)  Subject to the requirements of this chapter, each agency shall develop
and use flexible approaches in drafting rules that meet the needs of the
agency and that involve persons affected by the agency's rules.
(4) (a)  Each agency shall file its proposed rule and rule analysis with the
division.
(b)  Rule amendments shall be marked with new language underlined and deleted
language struck out.
(c) (i)  The division shall publish the information required under Subsection
(8) on the rule analysis and the text of the proposed rule in the next issue
of the bulletin.
(ii)  For rule amendments, only the section or subsection of the rule being
amended need be printed.
(iii)  If the director determines that the rule is too long to publish, the
director shall publish the rule analysis and shall publish the rule by
reference to a copy on file with the division.
(5)  Prior to filing a rule with the division, the department head shall
consider and comment on the fiscal impact a rule may have on businesses.
(6)  If the agency reasonably expects that a proposed rule will have a
measurable negative fiscal impact on small businesses, the agency shall
consider, as allowed by federal law, each of the following methods of reducing
the impact of the rule on small businesses:
(a)  establishing less stringent compliance or reporting requirements for
small businesses;
(b)  establishing less stringent schedules or deadlines for compliance or
reporting requirements for small businesses;
(c)  consolidating or simplifying compliance or reporting requirements for
small businesses;
(d)  establishing performance standards for small businesses to replace design
or operational standards required in the proposed rule; and
(e)  exempting small businesses from all or any part of the requirements
contained in the proposed rule.
(7)  If during the public comment period an agency receives comment that the
proposed rule will cost small business more than one day's annual average
gross receipts, and the agency had not previously performed the analysis in
Subsection (6), the agency shall perform the analysis described in Subsection
(6).
(8)  The rule analysis shall contain:
(a)  a summary of the rule or change;
(b)  the purpose of the rule or reason for the change;
(c)  the statutory authority or federal requirement for the rule;
(d)  the anticipated cost or savings to:
(i)  the state budget;
(ii)  local governments;
(iii)  small businesses; and
(iv)  persons other than small businesses, businesses, or local governmental
entities;
(e)  the compliance cost for affected persons;
(f)  how interested persons may review the full text of the rule;
(g)  how interested persons may present their views on the rule;
(h)  the time and place of any scheduled public hearing;
(i)  the name and telephone number of an agency employee who may be contacted
about the rule;
(j)  the name of the agency head or designee who authorized the rule;
(k)  the date on which the rule may become effective following the public
comment period; and
(l)  comments by the department head on the fiscal impact the rule may have on
businesses.
(9) (a)  For a rule being repealed and reenacted, the rule analysis shall
contain a summary that generally includes the following:
(i)  a summary of substantive provisions in the repealed rule which are
eliminated from the enacted rule; and
(ii)  a summary of new substantive provisions appearing only in the enacted
rule.
(b)  The summary required under this Subsection (9) is to aid in review and
may not be used to contest any rule on the ground of noncompliance with the
procedural requirements of this chapter.
(10)  A copy of the rule analysis shall be mailed to all persons who have made
timely request of the agency for advance notice of its rulemaking proceedings
and to any other person who, by statutory or federal mandate or in the
judgment of the agency, should also receive notice.
(11) (a)  Following the publication date, the agency shall allow at least 30
days for public comment on the rule.
(b)  The agency shall review and evaluate all public comments submitted in
writing within the time period under Subsection (11)(a) or presented at public
hearings conducted by the agency within the time period under Subsection
(11)(a).
(12) (a)  Except as provided in Sections 63G-3-303 and 63G-3-304, a proposed
rule becomes effective on any date specified by the agency that is no fewer
than seven calendar days after the close of the public comment period under
Subsection (11), nor more than 120 days after the publication date.
(b)  The agency shall provide notice of the rule's effective date to the
division in the form required by the division.
(c)  The notice of effective date may not provide for an effective date prior
to the date it is received by the division.
(d)  The division shall publish notice of the effective date of the rule in
the next issue of the bulletin.
(e)  A proposed rule lapses if a notice of effective date or a change to a
proposed rule is not filed with the division within 120 days of publication.
(13) (a)  As used in this Subsection (13), "initiate rulemaking proceedings"
means the filing, for the purposes of publication in accordance with
Subsection (4), of an agency's proposed rule that is required by state
statute.
(b)  A state agency shall initiate rulemaking proceedings no later than 180
days after the effective date of the statutory provision that specifically
requires the rulemaking, except under Subsection (13)(c).
(c)  When a statute is enacted that requires agency rulemaking and the
affected agency already has rules in place that meet the statutory
requirement, the agency shall submit the rules to the Administrative Rules
Review Committee for review within 60 days after the statute requiring the
rulemaking takes effect.
(d)  If a state agency does not initiate rulemaking proceedings in accordance
with the time requirements in Subsection (13)(b), the state agency shall
appear before the legislative Administrative Rules Review Committee and
provide the reasons for the delay.
