63G-3-501.   Administrative Rules Review Committee.
(1) (a)  There is created an Administrative Rules Review Committee of ten
permanent members and four ex officio members.
(b) (i)  The committee's permanent members shall be composed of five members
of the Senate, appointed by the president of the Senate, and five members of
the House, appointed by the speaker of the House, with no more than three
senators and three representatives from the same political party.
(ii)  The permanent members shall convene at least once each month as a
committee to review new agency rules, amendments to existing agency rules, and
repeals of existing agency rules.  Meetings may be suspended at the discretion
of the committee chairs.
(iii)  Members shall serve for two-year terms or until their successors are
appointed.
(iv)  A vacancy exists whenever a committee member ceases to be a member of
the Legislature, or when a member resigns from the committee.  Vacancies shall
be filled by the appointing authority, and the replacement shall serve out the
unexpired term.
(c)  When the committee reviews existing rules, the committee's permanent
members shall invite the Senate and House chairmen of the standing committee
and the Senate and House chairmen of the appropriation subcommittee that have
jurisdiction over the agency whose existing rules are being reviewed to
participate as nonvoting, ex officio members with the committee.
(d)  Three representatives and three senators from the permanent members are a
quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting.
(2)  Each agency rule as defined in Section 63G-3-102 shall be submitted to
the committee at the same time public notice is given under Section 63G-3-301.
(3) (a)  The committee shall exercise continuous oversight of the process of
rulemaking.
(b)  The committee shall examine rules submitted by each agency to determine:
(i)  whether or not they are authorized by statute;
(ii)  whether or not they comply with legislative intent;
(iii)  their impact on the economy and the government operations of the state
and local political subdivisions; and
(iv)  their impact on affected persons.
(c)  To carry out these duties, the committee may examine any other issues
that it considers necessary.  The committee may also notify and refer rules to
the chairmen of the interim committee which has jurisdiction over a particular
agency when the committee determines that an issue involved in an agency's
rules may be more appropriately addressed by that committee.
(d)  In reviewing the rules, the committee shall follow generally accepted
principles of statutory construction.
(4)  The committee may request that the Office of the Legislative Fiscal
Analyst prepare a fiscal note on any rule.
(5)  In order to accomplish its oversight functions, the committee has all the
powers granted to legislative interim committees as set forth in Section
36-12-11.
(6) (a)  The committee may prepare written findings of its review of each rule
and may include any recommendations, including legislative action.
(b)  The committee shall provide to the agency that enacted the rule:
(i) its findings, if any; and
(ii)  a request that the agency notify the committee of any changes it makes
in the rule.
(c)  The committee shall provide its findings to any member of the Legislature
and to any person affected by the rule who requests the findings.
(d)  The committee shall provide its findings to the presiding officers of
both the House and the Senate, Senate and House chairs of the standing
committee, and the Senate and House chairs of the Appropriation Subcommittee
that have jurisdiction over the agency whose rules are the subject of the
findings.
(7) (a)  The committee may submit a report on its review of state agency rules
to each member of the Legislature at each regular session.
(b)  The report shall include:
(i)  the findings and recommendations made by the committee under Subsection
(6);
(ii)  any action taken by an agency in response to committee recommendations;
and
(iii)  any recommendations by the committee for legislation.
