63G-3-502.   Legislative reauthorization of agency rules -- Extension of
rules by governor.
(1)  All grants of rulemaking power from the Legislature to a state agency in
any statute are made subject to the provisions of this section.
(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), every agency rule that is in
effect on February 28 of any calendar year expires on May 1 of that year
unless it has been reauthorized by the Legislature.
(b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (2)(a), an agency's rules do
not expire if:
(i)  the rule is explicitly mandated by a federal law or regulation; or
(ii)  a provision of Utah's constitution vests the agency with specific
constitutional authority to regulate.
(3) (a)  The Administrative Rules Review Committee shall have omnibus
legislation prepared for consideration by the Legislature during its annual
general session.
(b)  The omnibus legislation shall be substantially in the following form:
"All rules of Utah state agencies are reauthorized except for the following:".
(c)  Before sending the legislation to the governor for the governor's action,
the Administrative Rules Review Committee may send a letter to the governor
and to the agency explaining specifically why the committee believes any rule
should not be reauthorized.
(d)  For the purpose of this section, the entire rule, a single section, or
any complete paragraph of a rule may be excepted for reauthorization in the
omnibus legislation considered by the Legislature.
(4)  The Legislature's reauthorization of a rule by legislation does not
constitute legislative approval of the rule, nor is it admissible in any
proceeding as evidence of legislative intent.
(5) (a)  If an agency believes that a rule that has not been reauthorized by
the Legislature or that will be allowed to expire should continue in full
force and effect and is a rule within their authorized rulemaking power, the
agency may seek the governor's declaration extending the rule beyond the
expiration date.
(b)  In seeking the extension, the agency shall submit a petition to the
governor that affirmatively states:
(i)  that the rule is necessary; and
(ii)  a citation to the source of its authority to make the rule.
(c) (i)  If the governor finds that the necessity does exist, and that the
agency has the authority to make the rule, the governor may declare the rule
to be extended by publishing that declaration in the Administrative Rules
Bulletin on or before April 15 of that year.
(ii)  The declaration shall set forth the rule to be extended, the reasons the
extension is necessary, and a citation to the source of the agency's authority
to make the rule.
(d)  If the omnibus bill required by Subsection (3) fails to pass both houses
of the Legislature or is found to have a technical legal defect preventing
reauthorization of administrative rules intended to be reauthorized by the
Legislature, the governor may declare all rules to be extended by publishing a
single declaration in the Administrative Rules Bulletin on or before June 15
without meeting requirements of Subsections (5)(b) and (c).
