4-32-3.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Adulterated" means any meat or poultry product that:
(a)  bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious substance that may render
it injurious to health, but, if the substance is not an added substance, the
meat or poultry product is not considered adulterated under this subsection if
the quantity of the substance in or on the meat or poultry product does not
ordinarily render it injurious to health;
(b)  bears or contains, by reason of the administration of any substance to
the animal or otherwise, any added poisonous or added deleterious substance
that in the judgment of the commissioner makes the meat or poultry product
unfit for human food;
(c)  contains, in whole or in part, a raw agricultural commodity and that
commodity bears or contains a pesticide chemical that is unsafe within the
meaning of 21 U.S.C. Sec. 346a;
(d)  bears or contains any food additive that is unsafe within the meaning of
21 U.S.C. Sec. 348;
(e)  bears or contains any color additive that is unsafe within the meaning of
21 U.S.C. Sec. 379e; provided, that a meat or poultry product that is not
otherwise considered adulterated under Subsection (1)(c) or (d) of this
section is considered adulterated if use of the pesticide chemical, food
additive, or color additive is prohibited in official establishments by
federal law, regulation, or standard;
(f)  consists, in whole or in part, of any filthy, putrid, or decomposed
substance or is for any other reason unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or
otherwise unfit for human food;
(g)  has been prepared, packaged, or held under unsanitary conditions if the
meat or poultry product may have become contaminated with filth, or if it may
have been rendered injurious to health;
(h)  is in whole or in part the product of an animal that died other than by
slaughter;
(i)  is contained in a container that is composed, in whole or in part, of any
poisonous or deleterious substance that may render the meat or poultry product
injurious to health;
(j)  has been intentionally subjected to radiation, unless the use of the
radiation conforms with a regulation or exemption in effect pursuant to 21
U.S.C. Sec. 348;
(k)  has a valuable constituent in whole or in part omitted, abstracted, or
substituted; or if damage or inferiority is concealed in any manner; or if any
substance has been added, mixed, or packed with the meat or poultry product to
increase its bulk or weight, or reduce its quality or strength, or to make it
appear better or of greater value; or
(l)  is margarine containing animal fat and any of the raw material used in
the margarine consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid, or
decomposed substance.
(2)  "Animal" means a domesticated or captive mammalian or avian species.
(3)  "Animal food manufacturer" means any person engaged in the business of
preparing animal food derived from animal carcasses or parts or products of
the carcasses.
(4)  "Ante mortem inspection" means an inspection of a live animal immediately
before slaughter.
(5)  "Broker" means any person engaged in the business of buying and selling
meat or poultry products other than for the person's own account.
(6)  "Capable of use as human food" means any animal carcass, or part or
product of a carcass, unless it is denatured or otherwise identified as
required by rules of the department to deter its use as human food.
(7)  "Commissioner" includes a person authorized by the commissioner to carry
out this chapter's provisions.
(8)  "Container" or "package" means any box, can, tin, cloth, plastic, or
other receptacle, wrapper, or cover.
(9)  "Custom exempt processing" means processing meat or wild game as a
service for the person who owns the meat or wild game and uses the meat and
meat food products for the person's own consumption, including consumption by
immediate family members and non-paying guests.
(10)  "Custom exempt slaughter":
(a)  means slaughtering an animal as a service for the person who owns the
animal and uses the meat and meat products for the person's own consumption,
including consumption by immediate family members and non-paying guests; and
(b)  includes farm custom slaughter.
(11)  "Director of meat inspection" means a licensed graduate veterinarian
whose duties and responsibilities are specified by the commissioner.
(12)  "Diseased animal":
(a)  means an animal that:
(i)  is diagnosed with a disease not known to be cured; or
(ii)  has exhibited signs or symptoms of a disease that is not known to be
cured; and
(b)  does not include an otherwise healthy animal that suffers only from
injuries such as fractures, cuts, or bruises.
(13)  "Farm custom slaughter" means custom exempt slaughtering of an animal
for an owner without inspection.
(14)  "Farm custom mobile unit" means a portable slaughter vehicle or trailer
that is used by a farm custom slaughter licensee to slaughter animals on the
animal owner's property.
(15)  "Farm custom slaughter license" means a license issued by the department
to allow farm custom slaughter.
(16)  "Farm custom slaughter tag" means a tag that specifies the animal's
identification and certifies its ownership, which is issued by the department
through a brand inspector to the owner of the animal before it is slaughtered.
(17)  "Federal acts" means:
(a)  the Federal Meat Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. Sec. 601 et seq;
(b)  the Federal Poultry Products Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. Sec. 451 et seq.;
and
(c)  the Humane Slaughter Act, 7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.
(18)  "Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act" means the act so entitled,
approved June 25, 1938 (52 Stat. 1040) (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.), and any
amendments to it.
(19)  "Immediate container" means any consumer package, or any other container
in which meat or poultry products not consumer packaged, are packed.
(20)  "Inspector" means a licensed veterinarian or competent lay person
working under the supervision of a licensed graduate veterinarian.
(21)  "Label" means a display of printed or graphic matter upon any meat or
poultry product or the immediate container, not including package liners, of
any such product.
(22)  "Labeling" means all labels and other printed or graphic matter:
(a)  upon any meat or poultry product or any of its containers or wrappers; or
(b)  accompanying a meat or poultry product.
(23)  "Licensee" means a person who holds a valid farm custom slaughter
license.
(24)  "Meat" means the edible muscle and other edible parts of an animal,
including edible:
(a)  skeletal muscle;
(b)  organs;
(c)  muscle found in the tongue, diaphragm, heart, or esophagus; and
(d)  fat, bone, skin, sinew, nerve, or blood vessel that normally accompanies
meat and is not ordinarily removed in processing.
(25)  "Meat establishment" means a plant or fixed premises used to:
(a)  slaughter animals for human consumption; or
(b)  process meat or poultry products for human consumption.
(26)  "Meat product" means any product capable of use as human food that is
made wholly or in part from any meat or other part of the carcass of any non-
avian animal.
(27)  "Misbranded" means any meat or poultry product that:
(a)  bears a label that is false or misleading in any particular;
(b)  is offered for sale under the name of another food;
(c)  is an imitation of another food, unless the label bears, in type of
uniform size and prominence, the word "imitation" followed by the name of the
food imitated;
(d)  if its container is so made, formed, or filled as to be misleading;
(e)  does not bear a label showing:
(i)  the name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or
distributor; and
(ii)  an accurate statement of the quantity of the product in terms of weight,
measure, or numerical count; provided, that under this Subsection (27)(e),
exemptions as to meat and poultry products not in containers may be
established by rules of the department and that under this Subsection
(27)(e)(ii), reasonable variations may be permitted, and exemptions for small
packages may be established for meat or poultry products by rule of the
department;
(f)  does not bear any word, statement, or other information required by or
under authority of this chapter to appear on the label or other labeling is
not prominently placed with such conspicuousness, as compared with other
words, statements, designs, or devices, in the labeling, and in such terms as
to render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under
customary conditions of purchase and use;
(g)  is a food for which a definition and standard of identity or composition
has been prescribed by rules of the department under Section 4-32-7 if the
food does not conform to the definition and standard and the label does not
bear the name of the food and any other information that is required by the
rule;
(h)  is a food for which a standard of fill has been prescribed by rule of the
department for the container and the actual fill of the container falls below
that prescribed unless its label bears, in a manner and form as the rule
specifies, a statement that it falls below the standard;
(i)  is a food for which no standard or definition of identity has been
prescribed under Subsection (27)(g) unless its label bears:
(i)  the common or usual name of the food, if there be any; and
(ii)  if it is fabricated from two or more ingredients, the common or usual
name of each such ingredient; except that spices, flavorings, and colorings
may, when authorized by the department, be designated as spices, flavorings,
and colorings without naming each; provided, that to the extent that
compliance with the requirements of this Subsection (27)(i)(ii) is
impracticable, or results in deception or unfair competition, exemptions shall
be established by rule;
(j)  is a food that purports to be or is represented to be for special dietary
uses, unless its label bears information concerning its vitamin, mineral, and
other dietary properties as the department, after consultation with the
Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, prescribes by rules as
necessary to inform purchasers as to its value for special dietary uses;
(k)  bears or contains any artificial flavoring, artificial coloring, or
chemical preservative, unless it bears labeling stating that fact; provided,
that to the extent that compliance with the requirements of this subsection
are impracticable, exemptions shall be prescribed by rules of the department;
or
(l)  does not bear directly thereon and on its containers, as the department
may prescribe by rule, the official inspection legend and establishment number
of the official establishment where the product was prepared, and,
unrestricted by any of the foregoing, other information as the department may
require by rule to assure that the meat or poultry product will not have false
or misleading labeling and that the public will be informed of the manner of
handling required to maintain it in a wholesome condition.
(28)  "Official certificate" means any certificate prescribed by rules of the
department for issuance by an inspector or other person performing official
functions under this chapter.
(29)  "Official device" means any device prescribed or authorized by the
commissioner for use in applying any official mark.
(30)  "Official establishment" means any establishment at which inspection of
the slaughter of animals or the preparation of meat or poultry products is
maintained under the authority of this chapter.
(31)  "Official inspection legend" means any symbol prescribed by rules of the
department showing that a meat or poultry product was inspected and passed in
accordance with this chapter.
(32)  "Official mark" means the official legend or any other symbol prescribed
by rules of the department to identify the status of any animal carcass or
meat or poultry product under this chapter.
(33)  "Pesticide chemical," "food additive," "color additive," and "raw
agricultural commodity," have the same meanings for purposes of this chapter
as ascribed to them in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C.
Sec. 301 et seq.
(34)  "Post mortem inspection" means an inspection of a slaughtered food
animal's carcass after slaughter.
(35)  "Poultry" means any domesticated bird, whether living or dead.
(36)  "Poultry product" means any product capable of use as human food that is
made wholly or in part from any poultry carcass, excepting products that
contain poultry ingredients in relatively small proportion or that
historically have not been considered by consumers as products of the poultry
food industry, and that are exempted from definition as a poultry product by
the commissioner.
(37)  "Prepared" means slaughtered, canned, salted, stuffed, rendered, boned,
cut up, or otherwise manufactured or processed.
(38)  "Process" means to cut, grind, manufacture, compound, smoke, intermix,
or prepare meat or poultry products.
(39)  "Renderer" means any person engaged in the business of rendering animal
carcasses, or parts or products of animal carcasses, except rendering
conducted under inspection or exemption under this chapter.
(40)  "Slaughter" means:
(a)  the killing of an animal in a humane manner including skinning or
dressing; or
(b)  the process of performing any of the specified acts in preparing an
animal for human consumption.
(41)  "Wild game" means an animal, the products of which are food that is not
classified as a domesticated food animal, captive game animal, or captive game
bird, including the following when not domesticated:
(a)  deer;
(b)  elk;
(c)  antelope;
(d)  moose;
(e)  bison;
(f)  bear;
(g)  rabbit;
(h)  squirrel;
(i)  raccoon; and
(j)  birds.
