34A-6-106.   Occupational Safety and Health Advisory Council -- Appointment.
(1) (a)  There is created a Utah Occupational Safety and Health Advisory
Council to assist the division in standard formulation.
(b)  Voting members on the council shall be appointed by the commissioner and
shall consist of six persons selected upon the basis of their experience and
competence in the field of occupational safety and health and shall include:
(i)  two representatives of labor;
(ii)  two representatives of industry; and
(iii)  two representatives of the public.
(c)  In addition to the voting members under Subsection (1)(b), the
commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall serve as a nonvoting member.
(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), as terms of current council
members expire, the commissioner shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the commissioner
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that
approximately half of the council is appointed every two years.
(c)  The commissioner may reappoint any council member for additional terms.
(d)  The commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall serve as chair of
the council and call all necessary meetings.
(3)  The council shall meet as needed when called by the chair.
(4) (a)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the
replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(b)  The commissioner shall terminate the term of any council member who
ceases to be a representative as designated by the member's original
appointment.
(5)  The administrator shall furnish the council clerical, secretarial, and
other services necessary to conduct the business delegated to the council.
(6) (a)  Members shall receive no compensation or benefits for their services,
but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the
member’s official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance
under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(b)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
