34A-6-107.   Research and related activities.

(1) (a)  The division, after consultation with other appropriate agencies, shall conduct, directly or by grants or contracts, whether federal or otherwise, research, experiments, and demonstrations in the area of occupational safety and health, including studies of psychological factors involved in innovative methods, techniques, and approaches for dealing with occupational safety and health problems.

(b) (i)  The division, to comply with its responsibilities under this section, and to develop needed information regarding toxic substances or harmful physical agents, may make rules requiring employers to measure, record, and make reports on the exposure of employees to substances or physical agents reasonably believed to endanger the health or safety of employees.

(ii)  The division may establish programs for medical examinations and tests necessary for determining the incidence of occupational diseases and the susceptibility of employees to the diseases.

(iii)  Nothing in this chapter authorizes or requires a medical examination, immunization, or treatment for persons who object on religious grounds, except when necessary for the protection of the health or safety of others.

(iv)  Any employer who is required to measure and record employee exposure to substances or physical agents as provided under Subsection (1)(b) may receive full or partial financial or other assistance to defray additional expense incurred by measuring and recording as provided in this Subsection (1)(b).

(c) (i)  Following a written request by any employer or authorized representative of employees, specifying with reasonable particularity the grounds on which the request is made, the division shall determine whether any substance normally found in a workplace has toxic effects in the concentrations used or found, and shall submit its determination both to employers and affected employees as soon as possible.

(ii)  The division shall immediately take action necessary under Section 34A-6-202 or 34A-6-305 if the division determines that:

(A)  any substance is toxic at the concentrations used or found in a workplace; and

(B)  the substance is not covered by an occupational safety or health standard promulgated under Section 34A-6-202.

(2)  The division may inspect and question employers and employees as provided in Section 34A-6-301, to carry out its functions and responsibilities under this section.

(3)  The division is authorized to enter into contracts, agreements, or other arrangements with appropriate federal or state agencies, or private organizations to conduct studies about its responsibilities under this chapter.  In carrying out its responsibilities under this subsection, the division shall cooperate with the Department of Health and the Department of Environmental Quality to avoid any duplication of efforts under this section.

(4)  Information obtained by the division under this section shall be disseminated to employers and employees and organizations of them.

