39-2-2.   Powers of State Armory Board.

(1)  The board shall supervise and control the armories and arsenals, and all real property held or acquired for the military purposes of the state.

(2)  The board may:

(a)  provide suitable armories and arsenals for the different organizations of the National Guard;

(b)  lease buildings for armory and arsenal purposes throughout the state wherever necessary for the use of organizations of the National Guard and for the storage of state and government property at a rental that the board considers reasonable;

(c)  erect armories and arsenals at places within the state that it considers necessary upon lands to which it has acquired the legal title;

(d)  expend military funds to acquire legal title to lands and to construct armories and arsenals; and

(e)  lease land that it holds under Subsection (1) to Department of Defense agencies for military purposes.

(3) (a)  Subject to Subsection (3)(b), the board may take options for the purchase of any premises under lease to the state for armory and arsenal purposes:

(i)  at any time during the life of the lease; and

(ii)  when the purchase is in the state's interest.

(b)  An option is not binding upon the board until it is approved by the Legislature.

(4) (a)  Before legally binding the state to sell any armory, army premises, or other real property owned by the National Guard, the board shall submit a description of the proposed sale to the Legislative Management Committee for its review and recommendations.

(b)  Before legally binding the state to purchase any interest in real property, the board shall submit a description of the proposed sale to the Legislative Management Committee for its review and recommendations.

(c)  The Legislative Management Committee shall review each proposal and may:

(i)  recommend that the board complete the purchase or sale; or

(ii)  recommend that the board not complete the purchase or sale.

(5)  The proceeds from the sales of armories and army premises authorized by this section shall be appropriated to the State Armory Board to be applied toward the construction of new armories.

