26-45-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Blood relative"  means a person's biologically related:
(a)  parent;
(b)  grandparent;
(c)  child;
(d)  grandchild;
(e)  sibling;
(f)  uncle;
(g)  aunt;
(h)  nephew;
(i)  niece; or
(j)  first cousin.
(2)  "DNA" means deoxyribonucleic acid, ribonucleic acid, and chromosomes,
which may be analyzed to detect heritable diseases or conditions, including
the identification of carriers, predicting risk of disease, or establishing a
clinical diagnosis.
(3)  "DNA sample" means any human biological specimen from which DNA can be
extracted, or DNA extracted from such specimen.
(4) (a)  "Genetic analysis" or "genetic test" means the testing or analysis of
an identifiable individual's DNA that results in information that is derived
from the presence, absence, alteration, or mutation of an inherited gene or
genes, or the presence or absence of a specific DNA marker or markers.
(b)  "Genetic analysis" or "genetic test" does not mean:
(i)  a routine physical examination;
(ii)  a routine chemical, blood, or urine analysis;
(iii)  a test to identify the presence of drugs or HIV infection; or
(iv)  a test performed due to the presence of signs, symptoms, or other
manifestations of a disease, illness, impairment, or other disorder.
(5)  "Individual" means the person from whose body the DNA sample originated.
(6)  "Person" means any person, organization, or entity other than the
individual.
(7) (a)  "Private genetic information" means any information about an
identifiable individual that is derived from the presence, absence,
alteration, or mutation of an inherited gene or genes, or the presence or
absence of a specific DNA marker or markers, and which has been obtained:
(i)  from a genetic test or analysis of the individual's DNA; or
(ii)  from a genetic test or analysis of a person's DNA to whom the individual
is a blood relative.
(b)  "Private genetic information" does not include information that is
derived from:
(i)  a routine physical examination;
(ii)  a routine chemical, blood, or urine analysis;
(iii)  a test to identify the presence of drugs or HIV infection; or
(iv)  a test performed due to the presence of signs, symptoms, or other
manifestations of a disease, illness, impairment, or other disorder.
