4-9-15.    Registration of commercial establishments using weights and
measures -- Approved weights and measures inspectors -- Application -- Fee --
Expiration -- Renewal.
(1) (a)  Pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act,
the department shall establish rules providing for the registration of weights
and measures users and issuance of certification of weights and measures
devices to ensure the use of correct weights and measures in commerce or
trade.
(b)  The division may:
(i)  determine whether weights and measures are correct through:
(A)  inspection and testing by department employees; or
(B)  acceptance of an inspection and testing report prepared by a registered
weights and measures service person;
(ii)  establish standards and qualifications for registered weights and
measures service persons; and
(iii)  determine the form and content of an inspection and testing report.
(c)  A weights and measures user shall register with the department.
(d)  Prior to granting a registration to a weights and measures user, the
department shall determine whether the weights and measures user complies with
the rules established under Subsection (1)(a).
(e)  An applicant shall register with the department, in writing, using forms
required by the department.
(f)  The department shall issue a registration to an applicant, if the
department determines that the applicant meets the qualifications of
registration established under Subsection (1)(a).
(g)  If the applicant does not meet the qualifications of registration, the
department shall notify the applicant, in writing, that the applicant's
registration is denied.
(h) (i)  If an applicant submits an incomplete application, a written notice
of conditional denial of registration shall be provided to an applicant.
(ii)  The applicant must correct the deficiencies within the time period
specified in the notice to receive a registration.
(i) (i)  The department may, as provided under Subsection 4-2-2(2), charge the
weights and measures user a registration fee.
(ii)  The department shall retain the fees as dedicated credits and shall use
the fees to administer the registration of weights and measures users.
(2) (a)  A registration, issued under this section, shall be valid from the
date the department issues the registration, to December 31 of the year the
registration is issued.
(b)  A registration may be renewed for the following year by applying for
renewal by December 31 of the year the registration expires.
(3)  A registration, issued under this section, shall specify:
(a)  the name and address of the weights and measures user;
(b)  the registration issuance and expiration date; and
(c)  the number and type of weights and measures devices to be certified.
(4) (a)  The department may immediately suspend a registration, issued under
this section, if any of the requirements of Section 4-9-12 are violated.
(b) (i)  The holder of a registration suspended under Subsection (4)(a) may
apply for the reinstatement of a registration.
(ii)  If the department determines that all requirements under Section 4-9-12
are being met, the department shall reinstate the registration.
(5) (a)  A weights and measures user, registered under this section, shall
allow the department access to the weights and measures user's place of
business to determine if the weights and measures user is complying with the
registration requirements.
(b)  If a weights and measures user denies access for an inspection required
under Subsection (5)(a), the department may suspend the weights and measures
user's registration until the department is allowed access to the weights and
measures user's place of business.
