36-26-102.   Utah International Relations and Trade Commission -- Creation -- Membership -- Chairs -- Per diem and expenses.

(1)  There is created the Utah International Relations and Trade Commission.

(2)  The commission membership consists of 13 members:

(a)  eight members to be appointed as follows:

(i)  five members from the House of Representatives, appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives, no more than three from the same political party; and

(ii)  three members from the Senate, appointed by the president of the Senate, no more than two members from the same political party;

(b) four nonvoting members to be appointed by the governor, including at least:

(i)  one representative from a Utah industry involved in international trade;

(ii)  one expert in international finance; and

(iii)  one expert in higher education with international experience; and

(c)  the Utah Attorney General or designee, who is a nonvoting member.

(3) (a)  The members appointed or reappointed by the governor shall serve two-year terms.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirement of Subsection (3)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of these members are staggered so that approximately half of the members are appointed or reappointed under Subsection (3)(c) every two years.

(c)  When a vacancy occurs among members appointed by the governor, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(4)  Four members of the commission constitute a quorum.

(5) (a)  The speaker of the House of Representatives shall designate a member of the House of Representatives appointed under Subsection (2)(a) as a cochair of the commission.

(b)  The president of the Senate shall designate a member of the Senate appointed under Subsection (2)(a) as a cochair of the commission.

(6)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 325, 2012 General Session

