32B-2-210.   Alcoholic Beverage Control Advisory Board.

(1)  There is created within the department an advisory board known as the "Alcoholic Beverage Control Advisory Board."

(2)  The advisory board shall consist of 12 members as follows:

(a)  the following voting members appointed by the commission, a representative of:

(i)  a full-service restaurant licensee;

(ii)  a limited-service restaurant licensee;

(iii)  a beer-only restaurant licensee;

(iv)  a social club licensee;

(v)  a fraternal club licensee;

(vi)  a dining club licensee;

(vii)  a wholesaler licensee;

(viii)  an on-premise banquet licensee;

(ix)  an on-premise beer retailer licensee; and

(x)  a reception center licensee;

(b)  the chair of the Utah Substance Abuse Advisory Council, or the chair's designee, who serves as a voting member; and

(c)  the chair of the commission or the chair's designee from the members of the commission, who shall serve as a nonvoting member.

(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current voting members of the advisory board expire, the commission shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term beginning July 1 and ending June 30.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the commission shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of voting advisory board members are staggered so that approximately half of the advisory board is appointed every two years.

(c)  No two members of the board may be employed by the same company or nonprofit organization.

(4) (a)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the commission shall appoint a replacement for the unexpired term.

(b)  The commission shall terminate the term of a voting advisory board member who ceases to be representative as designated by the member's original appointment.

(5)  The advisory board shall meet no more than quarterly as called by the chair for the purpose of advising the commission and the department, with discussion limited to administrative rules made under this title.

(6)  The chair of the commission or the chair's designee shall serve as the chair of the advisory board and call the necessary meetings.

(7) (a)  Six members of the board constitute a quorum of the board.

(b)  An action of the majority when a quorum is present is the action of the board.

(8)  The department shall provide staff support to the advisory board.

(9)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Enacted by Chapter 365, 2012 General Session

