32B-2-306.   Underage drinking prevention media and education campaign.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Advisory council" means the Utah Substance Abuse Advisory Council created in Section 63M-7-301.

(b)  "Restricted account" means the Underage Drinking Prevention Media and Education Campaign Restricted Account created in this section.

(2) (a)  There is created a restricted account within the General Fund known as the "Underage Drinking Prevention Media and Education Campaign Restricted Account."

(b)  The restricted account consists of:

(i)  deposits made under Subsection (3); and

(ii)  interest earned on the restricted account.

(3)  The department shall deposit 0.6% of the total gross revenue from sales of liquor with the state treasurer, as determined by the total gross revenue collected for the fiscal year two years preceding the fiscal year for which the deposit is made, to be credited to the restricted account and to be used by the department as provided in Subsection (5).

(4)  The advisory council shall:

(a)  provide ongoing oversight of a media and education campaign funded under this section;

(b)  create an underage drinking prevention workgroup consistent with guidelines proposed by the advisory council related to the membership and duties of the underage drinking prevention workgroup;

(c)  create guidelines for how money appropriated for a media and education campaign can be used;

(d)  include in the guidelines established pursuant to this Subsection (4) that a media and education campaign funded under this section is carefully researched and developed, and appropriate for target groups; and

(e)  approve plans submitted by the department in accordance with Subsection (5).

(5) (a)  Subject to appropriation from the Legislature, the department shall expend money from the restricted account to direct and fund one or more media and education campaigns designed to reduce underage drinking in cooperation with the advisory council.

(b)  The department shall:

(i)  in cooperation with the underage drinking prevention workgroup created under Subsection (4), prepare and submit a plan to the advisory council detailing the intended use of the money appropriated under this section;

(ii)  upon approval of the plan by the advisory council, conduct the media and education campaign in accordance with the guidelines made by the advisory council; and

(iii)  submit to the advisory council annually by no later than October 1, a written report detailing the use of the money for the media and education campaigns conducted under this Subsection (5) and the impact and results of the use of the money during the prior fiscal year ending June 30.



Enacted by Chapter 388, 2012 General Session

