77-10a-7.   Selection of grand jurors -- Notice -- Examination -- Qualification -- Alternates.

(1)  When the supervising judge orders that a grand jury be summoned, the managing judge shall direct the clerk to select at random from the master list the number of names determined by the managing judge to ensure that the required number of grand jurors under this chapter may be qualified to constitute the grand jury.

(2) (a)  The managing judge may direct the clerk to draw additional names from the master list so alternate grand jurors may be designated at the time the grand jury is selected.

(b)  Alternate grand jurors shall be drawn in the same manner and have the same qualifications as the regular grand jurors.  If impanelled, they are subject to the same challenges, shall take the same oath, and have the same functions, powers, facilities, and privileges as the regular jurors.

(3)  The clerk shall cause each person drawn for service on the grand jury or as an alternate to be notified of when and where to report for service.  Notice may be given by telephone or by service of a summons, either personally or by first class mail addressed to the prospective juror's current residence, place of business, or post office box.

(4)  The names of those drawn for service on the grand jury or as alternates and the contents of all grand juror questionnaires may not be made available to the public.

(5) (a)  At the time and place specified for the appearance of the persons summoned to serve as grand jurors and alternates, the managing judge shall examine the prospective grand jurors and alternates.  Before accepting any person as a grand juror or alternate, the managing judge shall be satisfied that the person has no bias or prejudice that would prevent him from fairly and dispassionately considering the matters presented to the grand jury.

(b)  When drawn and qualified, the person shall be accepted for service unless the managing judge in his discretion and on the application of the juror excuses him from service before he is sworn.

(6)  The managing judge may dismiss the grand jury panel if he finds there has been a material departure from the methods prescribed for the selecting, drawing, and return of the grand jury, or if there has been an intentional omission by the proper officer to summon one or more of the grand jurors drawn.

(7)  When 15 of the persons summoned as grand jurors who are qualified and not excused remain, they are the grand jury.  If more than 15 qualified persons remain, their names shall be written by the clerk on separate slips, folded to conceal the names, and placed in a box.  The clerk shall then draw 15 slips, and the persons whose names are drawn are the grand jury.

(8) (a)  When the number of persons to be designated as alternate grand jurors who are qualified and not excused remain, they are the alternate grand jurors.

(b)  If more than the number of alternate grand jurors designated by the managing judge remain, their names shall be written by the clerk on separate slips, folded to conceal the names, and placed in a box.  The clerk shall then draw slips until the designated number of alternate grand jurors are selected.

