77-10a-13.   Location -- Who may be present -- Witnesses -- Witnesses who
are subjects -- Evidence -- Contempt -- Notice -- Record of proceedings --
Disclosure.
(1)  The managing judge shall designate the place where the grand jury meets.
The grand jury may, upon request and with the permission of the managing
judge, meet and conduct business any place within the state.  Subject to the
approval of the managing judge the grand jury shall determine the times at
which it meets.
(2) (a)  Attorneys representing the state, special prosecutors appointed under
Section 77-10a-12, the witness under examination, interpreters when needed,
counsel for a witness, and a court reporter or operator of a recording device
to record the proceedings may be present while the grand jury is in session.
(b)  No person other than the jurors may be present while the grand jury is
deliberating.
(3) (a)  The attorneys representing the state and the special prosecutors may
subpoena witnesses to appear before the grand jury and may subpoena evidence
in the name of the grand jury without the prior approval or consent of the
grand jury or the court.  The jury may request that other witnesses or
evidence be subpoenaed.
(b)  Subpoenas may be issued in the name of the grand jury to any person
located within the state and for any evidence located within the state or as
otherwise provided by law.
(c)  The managing judge may enter any order necessary to secure compliance
with any subpoena issued in the name of the grand jury.
(4) (a)  Any witness who appears before the grand jury shall be advised, by
the attorney for the state or the special prosecutor, of his right to be
represented by counsel.
(b)  A witness who is also a subject as defined in Section 77-10a-1 shall at
the time he appears as a witness be advised:
(i)  of his right to be represented by counsel;
(ii)  that he is a subject;
(iii)  that he may claim his privilege against self-incrimination; and
(iv)  of the general scope of the grand jury's investigation.
(c)  A witness who is also a target as defined in Section 77-10a-1 shall at
the time he appears as a witness, be advised:
(i)  of his right to be represented by counsel;
(ii)  that he is a target;
(iii)  that he may claim his privilege against self-incrimination;
(iv)  that the attorney for the state, the special prosecutor, or the grand
jury is in possession of substantial evidence linking him to the commission of
a crime for which he could be charged; and
(v)  of the general nature of that charge and of the evidence that would
support the charge.
(d)  This subsection does not require the attorney for the state, the special
prosecutor, or the grand jury to disclose to any subject or target the names
or identities of witnesses, sources of information, or informants, or disclose
information in detail or in a fashion that would jeopardize or compromise any
ongoing criminal investigation or endanger any person or the community.
(5) (a)  The grand jury shall receive evidence without regard for the formal
rules of evidence, except the grand jury may receive hearsay evidence only
under the same provisions and limitations that apply to preliminary hearings.
(b)  Any person, including a witness who has previously testified or produced
books, records, documents, or other evidence, may present exculpatory evidence
to the attorney representing the state or the special prosecutor and request
that it be presented to the grand jury, or request to appear personally before
the grand jury to testify or present evidence to that body.  The attorney for
the state or the special prosecutor shall forward the request to the grand
jury.
(c)  When the attorney for the state or the special prosecutor is personally
aware of substantial and competent evidence negating the guilt of a subject or
target that might reasonably be expected to lead the grand jury not to indict,
he shall present or otherwise disclose the evidence to the grand jury before
the grand jury is asked to indict that person.
(6) (a)  The managing judge has the contempt power and authority inherent in
the court over which he presides and as provided by statute.
(b)  When a witness in any proceeding before or ancillary to any grand jury
appearance refuses to comply with an order from the managing judge to testify
or provide other information, including any book, paper, document, record,
recording, or other material without having a recognized privilege, the
attorney for the state or special prosecutor may apply to the managing judge
for an order directing the witness to show cause why he should not be held in
contempt.
(c)  After submission of the application and a hearing at which the witness is
entitled to be represented by counsel, the managing judge may hold the witness
in contempt and order that he be confined, upon a finding that the refusal was
not privileged.
(d)  A hearing may not be held under this part unless 72 hours notice is given
to the witness who has refused to comply with the order to testify or provide
other information, except a witness may be given a shorter notice if the
managing judge upon a showing of special need so orders.
(e)  Any confinement for refusal to comply with an order to testify or produce
other information shall continue until the witness is willing to give the
testimony or provide the information.  A period of confinement may not exceed
the term of the grand jury, including extensions, before which the refusal to
comply with the order occurred.  In any event the confinement may not exceed
one year.
(f)  A person confined under this subsection for refusal to testify or provide
other information concerning any transaction, set of transactions, event, or
events may not be again confined under this subsection or for criminal
contempt for a subsequent refusal to testify or provide other information
concerning the same transaction, set of transactions, event, or events.
(g)  Any person confined under this section may be admitted to bail or
released in accordance with local procedures pending the determination of an
appeal taken by him from the order of his confinement unless the appeal
affirmatively appears to be frivolous or taken for delay.  Any appeal from an
order of confinement under this section shall be disposed of as soon as
practicable, pursuant to an expedited schedule and in no event more than 30
days from the filing of the appeal.
(7) (a)  All proceedings, except when the grand jury is deliberating or
voting, shall be recorded stenographically or by an electronic recording
device.  An unintentional failure of any recording to reproduce all or any
portion of a proceeding does not affect the validity of any prosecution or
indictment.  The recording or reporter's notes or any transcript prepared from
them shall remain in the custody or control of the attorney for the state or
the special prosecutor unless otherwise ordered by the managing judge in a
particular case.
(b)  A grand juror, an interpreter, a court reporter, an operator of a
recording device, a typist who transcribes recorded testimony, an attorney for
the state or special prosecutor, or any person to whom disclosure is made
under the provisions of this section may not disclose matters occurring before
the grand jury except as otherwise provided in this section.  A knowing
violation of this provision may be punished as a contempt of court.
(c)  Disclosure otherwise prohibited by this section of matters occurring
before the grand jury, other than its deliberations and the vote of any grand
juror, may be made to:
(i)  an attorney for the state or a special prosecutor for use in the
performance of that attorney's duty; and
(ii)  government personnel, including those of state, local, and federal
entities and agencies, as are considered necessary by the attorney for the
state or special prosecutor to assist him in the performance of his duty to
enforce the state's criminal laws.
(d)  Any person to whom matters are disclosed under this section may not
utilize that grand jury material for any purpose other than assisting the
attorney for the state or the special prosecutor in performance of that
attorney's duty to enforce the state's criminal laws.  An attorney for the
state or the special prosecutor shall promptly provide the managing judge with
the names of the persons to whom the disclosure has been made and shall
certify that the attorney has advised the person of his obligation of secrecy
under this section.
(e)  Disclosure otherwise prohibited by this section of matters occurring
before the grand jury may also be made when:
(i)  directed by the managing judge or by any court before which the
indictment that involves matters occurring before the grand jury that are
subject to disclosure is to be tried, preliminary to or in connection with a
judicial proceeding;
(ii)  permitted by the managing judge at the request of the defendant, upon a
showing that grounds may exist for a motion to dismiss the indictment because
of matters occurring before the grand jury;
(iii)  the disclosure is made by an attorney for the state or the special
prosecutor to another state or local grand jury or a federal grand jury;
(iv)  permitted by the managing judge at the request of an attorney for the
state or the special prosecutor, upon a showing that the matters may disclose
a violation of federal criminal law, to an appropriate official of the federal
government for the purpose of enforcing federal law; or
(v)  showing of special need is made and the managing judge is satisfied that
disclosure of the information or matters is essential for the preparation of a
defense.
(f)  When the matters are transcripts of testimony given by witnesses, the
state or special prosecutor intends to call in the state's case in chief in
any trial upon an indictment returned by the grand jury before which the
witnesses testified, the attorney for the state or the special prosecutor
shall, no later than 30 days before trial, provide the defendant with access
to the transcripts.  The attorney for the state or the special prosecutor
shall at the same time provide the defendant with access to all exculpatory
evidence presented to the grand jury prior to indictment.
(g)  When the managing judge orders disclosure of matters occurring before the
grand jury, disclosure shall be made in a manner, at a time, and under
conditions the managing judge directs.
(h)  A petition for disclosure made under Subsection (7)(e)(ii) shall be filed
with the managing judge.  Unless the hearing is ex parte, the petitioner shall
serve written notice upon the attorney for the state or the special
prosecutor, the parties to the judicial proceeding if disclosure is sought in
connection with the proceeding, and other persons as the managing judge
directs.  The managing judge shall afford those persons a reasonable
opportunity to appear and be heard.
(8)  Records, orders, and subpoenas relating to grand jury proceedings shall
be kept under seal to the extent and so long as necessary to prevent
disclosure of matters occurring before the grand jury other than as provided
in this section.
(9)  Subject to any right to an open hearing in contempt proceedings, the
managing judge shall order a hearing on matters affecting a grand jury
proceeding to be closed to the extent necessary to prevent disclosure of
matters occurring before a grand jury.
