62A-7-501.   Youth Parole Authority -- Expenses -- Responsibilities --
Procedures.
(1)  There is created within the division a Youth Parole Authority.
(2) (a)  The authority is composed of 10 part-time members and five pro
tempore members who are residents of this state.  No more than three pro
tempore members may serve on the authority at any one time.
(b)  Throughout this section, the term "member" refers to both part-time and
pro tempore members of the Youth Parole Authority.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), members shall be appointed
to four-year terms by the governor with the consent of the Senate.
(b)  The governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust
the length of terms to ensure that the terms of authority members are
staggered so that approximately half of the authority is appointed every two
years.
(4)  Each member shall have training or experience in social work, law,
juvenile or criminal justice, or related behavioral sciences.
(5)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
member shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(6)  During the tenure of his appointment, a member may not:
(a)  be an employee of the department, other than in his capacity as a member
of the authority;
(b)  hold any public office;
(c)  hold any position in the state's juvenile justice system; or
(d)  be an employee, officer, advisor, policy board member, or subcontractor
of any juvenile justice agency or its contractor.
(7)  In extraordinary circumstances or when a regular member is absent or
otherwise unavailable, the chair may assign a pro tempore member to act in the
absent member's place.
(8) (a)  Members receive no compensation or benefits for their services, but
may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of official
duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections
63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(b)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(9)  The authority shall determine appropriate parole dates for youth
offenders, based on guidelines established by the board.  The board shall
review and update policy guidelines annually.
(10)  Youth offenders may be paroled to their own homes, to a residential
community-based program, to a nonresidential community-based treatment
program, to an approved independent living setting, or to other appropriate
residences, but shall remain on parole until parole is terminated by the
authority.
(11)  The division's case management staff shall implement parole release
plans and shall supervise youth offenders while on parole.
(12)  The division shall permit the authority to have reasonable access to
youth offenders in secure facilities and shall furnish all pertinent data
requested by the authority in matters of parole, revocation, and termination.
