76-5b-103.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Child pornography" means any visual depiction, including any live performance, photograph, film, video, picture, or computer or computer-generated image or picture, whether made or produced by electronic, mechanical, or other means, of sexually explicit conduct, where:

(a)  the production of the visual depiction involves the use of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct;

(b)  the visual depiction is of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct; or

(c)  the visual depiction has been created, adapted, or modified to appear that an identifiable minor is engaging in sexually explicit conduct.

(2)  "Distribute" means the selling, exhibiting, displaying, wholesaling, retailing, providing, giving, granting admission to, or otherwise transferring or presenting child pornography or vulnerable adult pornography with or without consideration.

(3)  "Identifiable minor" means a person:

(a) (i)  who was a minor at the time the visual depiction was created, adapted, or modified; or

(ii)  whose image as a minor was used in creating, adapting, or modifying the visual depiction; and

(b)  who is recognizable as an actual person by the person's face, likeness, or other distinguishing characteristic, such as a birthmark, or other recognizable feature.

(4)  "Identifiable vulnerable adult" means a person:

(a) (i)  who was a vulnerable adult at the time the visual depiction was created, adapted, or modified; or

(ii)  whose image as a vulnerable adult was used in creating, adapting, or modifying the visual depiction; and

(b)  who is recognizable as an actual person by the person's face, likeness, or other distinguishing characteristic, such as a birthmark, or other recognizable feature.

(5)  "Lacks capacity to consent" is as defined in Subsection 76-5-111(1).

(6)  "Live performance" means any act, play, dance, pantomime, song, or other activity performed by live actors in person.

(7)  "Minor" means a person younger than 18 years of age.

(8)  "Nudity or partial nudity" means any state of dress or undress in which the human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, or the female breast, at a point below the top of the areola, is less than completely and opaquely covered.

(9)  "Produce" means:

(a)  the photographing, filming, taping, directing, producing, creating, designing, or composing of child pornography or vulnerable adult pornography; or

(b)  the securing or hiring of persons to engage in the photographing, filming, taping, directing, producing, creating, designing, or composing of child pornography or vulnerable adult pornography.

(10)  "Sexually explicit conduct" means actual or simulated:

(a)  sexual intercourse, including genital-genital, oral-genital, anal-genital, or oral-anal, whether between persons of the same or opposite sex;

(b)  masturbation;

(c)  bestiality;

(d)  sadistic or masochistic activities;

(e)  lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic area of any person;

(f)  the visual depiction of nudity or partial nudity for the purpose of causing sexual arousal of any person;

(g)  the fondling or touching of the genitals, pubic region, buttocks, or female breast; or

(h)  the explicit representation of the defecation or urination functions.

(11)  "Simulated sexually explicit conduct" means a feigned or pretended act of sexually explicit conduct which duplicates, within the perception of an average person, the appearance of an actual act of sexually explicit conduct.

(12)  "Vulnerable adult" is as defined in Subsection 76-5-111(1).

(13)  "Vulnerable adult pornography" means any visual depiction, including any live performance, photograph, film, video, picture, or computer or computer-generated image or picture, whether made or produced by electronic, mechanical, or other means, of sexually explicit conduct, where:

(a)  the production of the visual depiction involves the use of a vulnerable adult engaging in sexually explicit conduct;

(b)  the visual depiction is of a vulnerable adult engaging in sexually explicit conduct; or

(c)  the visual depiction has been created, adapted, or modified to appear that an identifiable vulnerable adult is engaging in sexually explicit conduct.

