17-53-208.   Ordinances -- Effective dates -- Publication -- Adoption of
ordinances printed in book form.
(1)  The enacting clause of all ordinances of the county legislative body
shall be as follows: "The County Legislative Body of ______________County
ordains as follows:".
(2)  Every ordinance shall be signed by the chair of the county legislative
body and attested by the clerk.  On the passage of all ordinances the votes of
the several members of the county legislative body shall be entered on the
minutes, and all ordinances shall be entered at length in the ordinance book.
(3) (a)  No ordinance passed by the county legislative body may take effect
within less than 15 days after its passage.
(b)  The legislative body of each county adopting an ordinance shall, before
the ordinance may take effect:
(i)  deposit a copy of the ordinance in the office of the county clerk; and
(ii) (A)  publish a short summary of the ordinance, together with a statement
that a complete copy of the ordinance is available at the county clerk's
office and with the name of the members voting for and against the ordinance:
(I)  for at least one publication in:
(Aa)  a newspaper published in and having general circulation in the county,
if there is one; or
(Bb)  if there is none published in the county, in a newspaper of general
circulation within the county; and
(II)  as required in Section 45-1-101; or
(B)  post a complete copy of the ordinance in nine public places within the
county.
(4)  Any ordinance printed by authority of the county legislative body in book
form or electronic media, or any general revision of county ordinances printed
in book form or electronic media, may be adopted by an ordinance making
reference to the printed ordinance or revision if a copy of the ordinance or
revision is filed in the office of the county clerk at the time of adoption
for use and examination by the public.
(5)  Ordinances establishing rules and regulations, printed as a code in book
form or electronic media, for the construction of buildings, the installation
of plumbing, the installation of electric wiring, or other related or similar
work may be adopted by reference to the code book if a copy of the code book
is filed in the office of the county clerk at the time of the adoption of the
ordinance for use and examination by the public.
(6)  Ordinances that in the opinion of the county legislative body are
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, or safety of
the county and the county's inhabitants may, if so provided in the ordinance,
take effect immediately upon publication in one issue of a newspaper published
in and having general circulation in the county, if there is one, and if there
is none published in the county, then immediately after posting at the
courthouse door.
(7)  An ordinance may take effect at a later date than provided in this
section, if the ordinance so provides.
(8)  An order entered in the minutes of the county legislative body that an
ordinance has been duly published or posted shall be prima facie proof of the
publication or posting.
