78B-5-503.   Homestead exemption -- Definitions -- Excepted obligations --
Water rights and interests -- Conveyance -- Sale and disposition -- Property
right for federal tax purposes.
(1)  For purposes of this section:
(a)  "Household" means a group of persons related by blood or marriage living
together in the same dwelling as an economic unit, sharing furnishings,
facilities, accommodations, and expenses.
(b)  "Mobile home" is as defined in Section 57-16-3.
(c)  "Primary personal residence" means a dwelling or mobile home, and the
land surrounding it, not exceeding one acre, as is reasonably necessary for
the use of the dwelling or mobile home, in which the individual and the
individual's household reside.
(d)  "Property" means:
(i)  a primary personal residence;
(ii)  real property; or
(iii)  an equitable interest in real property awarded to a person in a divorce
decree by a court.
(2) (a)  An individual is entitled to a homestead exemption consisting of
property in this state in an amount not exceeding:
(i)  $5,000 in value if the property consists in whole or in part of property
which is not the primary personal residence of the individual; or
(ii)  $20,000 in value if the property claimed is the primary personal
residence of the individual.
(b)  If the property claimed as exempt is jointly owned, each joint owner is
entitled to a homestead exemption; however
(i)  for property exempt under Subsection (2)(a)(i), the maximum exemption may
not exceed $10,000 per household; or
(ii)  for property exempt under Subsection (2)(a)(ii), the maximum exemption
may not exceed $40,000 per household.
(c)  A person may claim a homestead exemption in either or both of the
following:
(i)  one or more parcels of real property together with appurtenances and
improvements; or
(ii)  a mobile home in which the claimant resides.
(d)  A person may not claim a homestead exemption for property that the person
acquired as a result of criminal activity.
(3)  A homestead is exempt from judicial lien and from levy, execution, or
forced sale except for:
(a)  statutory liens for property taxes and assessments on the property;
(b)  security interests in the property and judicial liens for debts created
for the purchase price of the property;
(c)  judicial liens obtained on debts created by failure to provide support or
maintenance for dependent children; and
(d)  consensual liens obtained on debts created by mutual contract.
(4) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), water rights and interests,
either in the form of corporate stock or otherwise, owned by the homestead
claimant are exempt from execution to the extent that those rights and
interests are necessarily employed in supplying water to the homestead for
domestic and irrigating purposes.
(b)  Those water rights and interests are not exempt from calls or assessments
and sale by the corporations issuing the stock.
(5) (a)  When a homestead is conveyed by the owner of the property, the
conveyance may not subject the property to any lien to which it would not be
subject in the hands of the owner.
(b)  The proceeds of any sale, to the amount of the exemption existing at the
time of sale, is exempt from levy, execution, or other process for one year
after the receipt of the proceeds by the person entitled to the exemption.
(6)  The sale and disposition of one homestead does not prevent the selection
or purchase of another.
(7)  For purposes of any claim or action for taxes brought by the United
States Internal Revenue Service, a homestead exemption claimed on real
property in this state is considered to be a property right.
