62A-5-101.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Approved provider" means a person approved by the division to provide home-based services.

(2) (a)  "Brain injury" means an acquired injury to the brain that is neurological in nature, including a cerebral vascular accident.

(b)  "Brain injury" does not include a deteriorating disease.

(3)  "Designated intellectual disability professional" means:

(a)  a psychologist licensed under Title 58, Chapter 61, Psychologist Licensing Act, who:

(i) (A)  has at least one year of specialized training in working with persons with an intellectual disability; or

(B)  has at least one year of clinical experience with persons with an intellectual disability; and

(ii)  is designated by the division as specially qualified, by training and experience, in the treatment of an intellectual disability; or

(b)  a clinical social worker, certified social worker, marriage and family therapist, or professional counselor, licensed under Title 58, Chapter 60, Mental Health Professional Practice Act, who:

(i)  has at least two years of clinical experience with persons with an intellectual disability; and

(ii)  is designated by the division as specially qualified, by training and experience, in the treatment of an intellectual disability.

(4)  "Deteriorating disease" includes:

(a)  multiple sclerosis;

(b)  muscular dystrophy;

(c)  Huntington's chorea;

(d)  Alzheimer's disease;

(e)  ataxia; or

(f)  cancer.

(5)  "Developmental center" means the Utah State Developmental Center, established in accordance with Part 2, Utah State Developmental Center.

(6)  "Direct service worker" means a person who provides services to a person with a disability:

(a)  when the services are rendered in:

(i)  the physical presence of the person with a disability; or

(ii)  a location where the person rendering the services has access to the physical presence of the person with a disability; and

(b) (i)  under a contract with the division;

(ii)  under a grant agreement with the division; or

(iii)  as an employee of the division.

(7)  "Director" means the director of the Division of Services for People with Disabilities.

(8) (a)  "Disability" means a severe, chronic disability that:

(i)  is attributable to:

(A) an intellectual disability;

(B)  a condition that qualifies a person as a person with a related condition, as defined in 42 C.F.R. 435.1009;

(C)  a physical disability; or

(D)  a brain injury;

(ii)  is likely to continue indefinitely;

(iii) (A)  for a condition described in Subsection (8)(a)(i)(A), (B), or (C), results in a substantial functional limitation in three or more of the following areas of major life activity:

(I)  self-care;

(II)  receptive and expressive language;

(III)  learning;

(IV)  mobility;

(V)  self-direction;

(VI)  capacity for independent living; or

(VII)  economic self-sufficiency; or

(B)  for a condition described in Subsection (8)(a)(i)(D), results in a substantial limitation in three or more of the following areas:

(I)  memory or cognition;

(II)  activities of daily life;

(III)  judgment and self-protection;

(IV)  control of emotions;

(V)  communication;

(VI)  physical health; or

(VII)  employment; and

(iv)  requires a combination or sequence of special interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment, or other services that:

(A)  may continue throughout life; and

(B)  must be individually planned and coordinated.

(b)  "Disability" does not include a condition due solely to:

(i)  mental illness;

(ii)  personality disorder;

(iii)  hearing impairment;

(iv)  visual impairment;

(v)  learning disability;

(vi)  behavior disorder;

(vii)  substance abuse; or

(viii)  the aging process.

(9)  "Division" means the Division of Services for People with Disabilities.

(10)  "Eligible to receive division services" or "eligibility" means qualification, based on criteria established by the division in accordance with Subsection 62A-5-102(4), to receive services that are administered by the division.

(11)  "Endorsed program" means a facility or program that:

(a)  is operated:

(i)  by the division; or

(ii)  under contract with the division; or

(b)  provides services to a person committed to the division under Part 3, Admission to an Intermediate Care Facility for People with an Intellectual Disability.

(12)  "Licensed physician" means:

(a)  an individual licensed to practice medicine under:

(i)  Title 58, Chapter 67, Utah Medical Practice Act; or

(ii)  Title 58, Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act; or

(b)  a medical officer of the United States Government while in this state in the performance of official duties.

(13)  "Physical disability" means a medically determinable physical impairment that has resulted in the functional loss of two or more of a person's limbs.

(14)  "Public funds" means state or federal funds that are disbursed by the division.

(15)  "Resident" means an individual under observation, care, or treatment in an intermediate care facility for people with an intellectual disability.



Amended by Chapter 366, 2011 General Session

