62A-5-312.   Involuntary commitment -- Procedures -- Necessary findings
-- Periodic review.
(1)  Any responsible person who has reason to know that an individual is in
need of commitment, who has a belief that the individual has mental
retardation, and who has personal knowledge of the conditions and
circumstances supporting that belief, may commence proceedings for involuntary
commitment by filing a written petition with the district court, or if the
subject of the petition is less than 18 years of age with the juvenile court,
of the county in which the individual to be committed is physically located at
the time the petition is filed.  The application shall be accompanied by:
(a)  a certificate of a licensed physician or a designated mental retardation
professional, stating that within a seven-day period immediately preceding the
certification, the physician or designated mental retardation professional
examined the individual and believes that the individual is mentally retarded
and is in need of involuntary commitment; or
(b)  a written statement by the petitioner stating that the individual was
requested but refused to submit to an examination for mental retardation by a
licensed physician or designated mental retardation professional, and that the
individual refuses to voluntarily go to the division or a mental retardation
facility recommended by the division for treatment.  That statement shall be
under oath and set forth the facts on which it is based.
(2)  Before issuing a detention order, the court may require the petitioner to
consult with personnel at the division or at a mental retardation facility and
may direct a designated mental retardation professional to interview the
petitioner and the individual to be committed, to determine the existing
facts, and to report them to the court.
(3)  The court may issue a detention order and may direct a peace officer to
immediately take the individual to a mental retardation facility to be
detained for purposes of an examination if the court finds from the petition,
from other statements under oath, or from reports of physicians or designated
mental retardation professionals that there is a reasonable basis to believe
that the individual to be committed:
(a)  poses an immediate danger of physical injury to  self or others;
(b)  requires involuntary commitment pending examination and hearing;
(c)  the individual was requested but refused to submit to an examination by a
licensed physician or designated mental retardation professional; or
(d)  the individual refused to voluntarily go to the division or to a mental
retardation facility recommended by the division.
(4) (a)  If the court issues a detention order based on an application that
did not include a certification by a designated mental retardation
professional or physician in accordance with Subsection (1)(a), the director
or his designee shall within 24 hours after issuance of the detention order,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, examine the individual,
report the results of the examination to the court and inform the court:
(i)  whether the director or his designee believes that the individual is
mentally retarded; and
(ii)  whether appropriate treatment programs are available and will be used by
the individual without court proceedings.
(b)  If the report of the director or his designee is based on an oral report
of the examiner, the examiner shall immediately send the results of the
examination in writing to the clerk of the court.
(5)  Immediately after an individual is involuntarily committed under a
detention order or under Section 62A-5-311, the director or his designee shall
inform the individual, orally and in writing, of his right to communicate with
an attorney.  If an individual desires to communicate with an attorney, the
director or his designee shall take immediate steps to assist the individual
in contacting and communicating with an attorney.
(6) (a)  Immediately after commencement of proceedings for involuntary
commitment, the court shall give notice of commencement of the proceedings to:
(i)  the individual to be committed;
(ii)  the applicant;
(iii)  any legal guardian of the individual;
(iv)  adult members of the individual's immediate family;
(v)  legal counsel of the individual to be committed, if any;
(vi)  the division; and
(vii)  any other person to whom the individual requests, or the court
designates, notice to be given.
(b)  If an individual cannot or refuses to disclose the identity of persons to
be notified, the extent of notice shall be determined by the court.
(7)  That notice shall:
(a)  set forth the allegations of the petition and all supporting facts;
(b)  be accompanied by a copy of any detention order issued under Subsection
(3); and
(c)  state that a hearing will be held within the time provided by law, and
give the time and place for that hearing.
(8)  The court may transfer the case and the custody of the individual to be
committed to any other district court within the state, if:
(a)  there are no appropriate facilities for persons with mental retardation
within the judicial district; and
(b)  the transfer will not be adverse to the interests of the individual.
(9) (a)  Within 24 hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays,
after any order or commitment under a detention order, the court shall appoint
two designated mental retardation professionals to examine the individual.  If
requested by the individual's counsel, the court shall appoint a reasonably
available, qualified person designated by counsel to be one of the examining
designated mental retardation professionals.  The examinations shall be
conducted:
(i)  separately;
(ii)  at the home of the individual to be committed, a hospital, a facility
for person's with mental retardation, or any other suitable place not likely
to have a harmful effect on the individual; and
(iii)  within a reasonable period of time after appointment of the examiners
by the court.
(b)  The court shall set a time for a hearing to be held within 10 court days
of the appointment of the examiners.  However, the court may immediately
terminate the proceedings and dismiss the application if, prior to the hearing
date, the examiners, the director, or his designee informs the court that:
(i)  the individual is not mentally retarded; or
(ii)  treatment programs are available and will be used by the individual
without court proceedings.
(10) (a)  Each individual has the right to be represented by counsel at the
commitment hearing and in all preliminary proceedings.  If neither the
individual nor others provide counsel,  the court shall appoint counsel and
allow sufficient time for counsel to consult with the individual prior to any
hearing.
(b)  If the individual is indigent, the county in which the individual was
physically located when taken into custody shall pay reasonable attorneys'
fees as determined by the court.
(11)  The division or a designated mental retardation professional in charge
of the individual's care shall provide all documented information on the
individual to be committed and to the court at the time of the hearing.  The
individual's attorney shall have access to all documented information on the
individual at the time of and prior to the hearing.
(12) (a)  The court shall provide an opportunity to the individual, the
petitioner, and all other persons to whom notice is required to be given to
appear at the hearing, to testify, and to present and cross-examine witnesses.
(b)  The court may, in its discretion:
(i)  receive the testimony of any other person;
(ii)  allow a waiver of the right to appear only for good cause shown;
(iii)  exclude from the hearing all persons not necessary to conduct the
proceedings; and
(iv)  upon motion of counsel, require the testimony of each examiner to be
given out of the presence of any other examiner.
(c)  The hearing shall be conducted in as informal a manner as may be
consistent with orderly procedure, and in a physical setting that is not
likely to have a harmful effect on the individual.  The Utah Rules of Evidence
apply, and the hearing shall be a matter of court record.  A verbatim record
of the proceedings shall be maintained.
(13)  The court may order commitment if, upon completion of the hearing and
consideration of the record, it finds by clear and convincing evidence that
all of the following conditions are met:
(a)  the individual to be committed is mentally retarded;
(b)  because of the individual's mental retardation one or more of the
following conditions exist:
(i)  the individual poses an immediate danger of physical injury to self or
others;
(ii)  the individual lacks the capacity to provide the basic necessities of
life, such as food, clothing, or shelter; or
(iii)  the individual is in immediate need of habilitation, rehabilitation,
care, or treatment to minimize the effects of the condition which poses a
threat of serious physical or psychological injury to the individual, and the
individual lacks the capacity to engage in a rational decision-making process
concerning the need for habilitation, rehabilitation, care, or treatment, as
evidenced by an inability to weigh the possible costs and benefits of the care
or treatment and the alternatives to it;
(c)  there is no appropriate, less restrictive alternative reasonably
available; and
(d)  the division or the mental retardation facility recommended by the
division in which the individual is to be committed can provide the individual
with treatment, care, habilitation, or rehabilitation that is adequate and
appropriate to the individual's condition and needs.
(14)  In the absence of any of the required findings by the court, described
in Subsection (13), the court shall dismiss the proceedings.
(15) (a)  The order of commitment shall designate the period for which the
individual will be committed.  An initial commitment may not exceed six
months.  Before the end of the initial commitment period, the administrator of
the facility for persons with mental retardation shall commence a review
hearing on behalf of the individual.
(b)  At the conclusion of the review hearing, the court may issue an order of
commitment for up to a one-year period.
(16)  An individual committed under this part has the right to a rehearing,
upon filing a petition with the court within 30 days after entry of the
court's order.  If the petition for rehearing alleges error or mistake in the
court's findings, the court shall appoint one impartial licensed physician and
two impartial designated mental retardation professionals who have not
previously been involved in the case to examine the individual. The rehearing
shall, in all other respects, be conducted in accordance with this part.
(17) (a)  The court shall maintain a current list of all individuals under its
orders of commitment.  That list shall be reviewed in order to determine those
patients who have been under an order of commitment for the designated period.
(b)  At least two weeks prior to the expiration of the designated period of
any commitment order still in effect, the court that entered the original
order shall inform the director of the division of the impending expiration of
the designated commitment period.
(c)  The staff of the division shall immediately:
(i)  reexamine the reasons upon which the order of commitment was based and
report the results of the examination to the court;
(ii)  discharge the resident from involuntary commitment if the conditions
justifying commitment no longer exist; and
(iii)  immediately inform the court of any discharge.
(d)  If the director of the division reports to the court that the conditions
justifying commitment no longer exist, and the administrator of the mental
retardation facility does not discharge the individual at the end of the
designated period, the court shall order the immediate discharge of the
individual, unless involuntary commitment proceedings are again commenced in
accordance with this section.
(e)  If the director of the division, or his designee reports to the court
that the conditions designated in Subsection (13) still exist, the court may
extend the commitment order for up to one year.  At the end of any extension,
the individual must be reexamined in accordance with this section, or
discharged.
(18)  When a resident is discharged under this subsection, the division shall
provide any further support services available and required to meet the
resident's needs.
