59-7-505.   Returns required -- When due -- Extension of time -- Exemption from filing.

(1)  Each corporation subject to taxation under this chapter shall make a return, except that a group of corporations filing a combined report under Part 4 of this chapter shall file one combined report.

(a)  The return shall be signed by a responsible officer of the corporation, the signature of whom need not be notarized but when signed shall be considered as made under oath.

(b) (i)  In cases where receivers, trustees in bankruptcy, or assignees are operating the property or business of corporations, those receivers, trustees, or assignees shall make returns for such corporations in the same manner and form as corporations are required to make returns.

(ii)  Any tax due on the basis of such returns made by receivers, trustees, or assignees shall be collected in the same manner as if collected from the corporations of whose business or property they have custody and control.

(2)  Returns shall be made on or before the 15th day of the fourth month following the close of the taxable year.

(3) (a)  The commission shall allow a taxpayer an extension of time for filing returns.

(b)  The extension under Subsection (3)(a) may not exceed six months.

(4)  Each return shall be made to the commission.

(5)  A corporation incorporated or qualified to do business in this state prior to January 1, 1973, is not liable for filing a return or paying tax measured by income for the taxable year in which it legally terminates its existence.

(6)  A corporation incorporated or qualified to do business or which had its authority to do business reinstated on or after January 1, 1973, shall file a return and pay the tax measured by income for each period during which it had the right to do business in this state, and the return shall be filed and the tax paid within three months and 15 days after the close of this period.

(7)  If a corporation terminates its existence under Section 16-10a-1401, no returns are required to be filed if a statement is furnished to the commission that no business has been conducted during that period.

(8) (a)  A corporation commencing to do business in Utah after qualification or incorporation with the Division of Corporations and Commercial Code is not required to file a return for the period commencing with the date of incorporation or qualification and ending on the last day of the same month, if that corporation was not doing business in and received no income from sources in the state during such period.

(b)  In determining whether a corporation comes within the provisions of this chapter, affidavits on behalf of the corporation that it did no business in and received no income from sources in Utah during such period shall be filed with the commission.

