59-7-519.   Period of limitation for making assessments -- Change, correction, or amendment of federal income tax -- Duty of corporation to notify state -- Extensions.

(1) (a)  Subject to the other provisions of this section, the amount of taxes imposed by this chapter shall be assessed within three years after a return is filed.

(b)  After the expiration of the time period described in Subsection (1)(a), a proceeding in court may not be made without assessment for the collection of the taxes described in Subsection (1)(a).

(2)  In the case of a deficiency attributable to the application of a net loss carryback, the deficiency may be assessed at any time before the expiration of the period within which a deficiency for the taxable year of the net loss that results in the carryback may be assessed.

(3)  If the amount of federal taxable income for any year of any corporation as returned to the United States treasury department is changed or corrected by the commissioner of internal revenue or other officer of the United States or other competent authority, or where a renegotiation of a contract or subcontract with the United States results in a change of federal taxable income, a taxpayer shall:

(a)  report the change or corrected net income within 90 days after the final determination of the change or correction as required to the commission; and

(b)  concede the accuracy of the determination or state where the determination is erroneous.

(4)  Any corporation filing an amended return with the United States treasury department shall also file, within 90 days after the corporation files the amended return with the United States treasury department, an amended return with the commission that contains the information the commission requires.

(5)  If a corporation fails to report a change or correction by the commissioner of internal revenue, other officer of the United States, or other competent authority or fails to file an amended return, any deficiency resulting from the change or correction may be assessed and collected within three years after the change, correction, or amended return is reported to or filed with the federal government.

(6)  If any corporation agrees with the commissioner of internal revenue for an extension, or a renewal of an extension, of the period for proposing and assessing deficiencies in federal income tax for any year, the period for sending a notice of proposed Utah tax deficiencies for that year is the later of:

(a)  three years after the return is filed; or

(b)  six months after the date of the expiration of the agreed period for assessing deficiencies in federal income tax.

(7)  The extensions described in Section 59-1-1418 apply to this section.

