59-7-607.   Utah low-income housing tax credit.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Allocation certificate" means:
(i)  the certificate prescribed by the commission and issued by the Utah
Housing Corporation to each taxpayer that specifies the percentage of the
annual federal low-income housing tax credit that each taxpayer may take as an
annual credit against state income tax; or
(ii)  a copy of the allocation certificate that the housing sponsor provides
to the taxpayer.
(b)  "Building" means a qualified low-income building as defined in Section
42(c), Internal Revenue Code.
(c)  "Federal low-income housing tax credit" means the tax credit under
Section 42, Internal Revenue Code.
(d)  "Housing sponsor" means a corporation in the case of a C corporation, a
partnership in the case of a partnership, a corporation in the case of an S
corporation, or a limited liability company in the case of a limited liability
company.
(e)  "Qualified allocation plan" means the qualified allocation plan adopted
by the Utah Housing Corporation pursuant to Section 42(m), Internal Revenue
Code.
(f)  "Special low-income housing tax credit certificate" means a certificate:
(i)  prescribed by the commission;
(ii)  that a housing sponsor issues to a taxpayer for a taxable year; and
(iii)  that specifies the amount of tax credit a taxpayer may claim under this
section if the taxpayer meets the requirements of this section.
(g)  "Taxpayer" means a person that is allowed a tax credit in accordance with
this section which is the corporation in the case of a C corporation, the
partners in the case of a partnership, the shareholders in the case of an S
corporation, and the members in the case of a limited liability company.
(2) (a)  For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1995, there is
allowed a nonrefundable tax credit against taxes otherwise due under this
chapter or Chapter 8, Gross Receipts Tax on Certain Corporations Not Required
to Pay Corporate Franchise or Income Tax Act, for taxpayers issued an
allocation certificate.
(b)  The tax credit shall be in an amount equal to the greater of the amount
of:
(i)  federal low-income housing tax credit to which the taxpayer is allowed
during that year multiplied by the percentage specified in an allocation
certificate issued by the Utah Housing Corporation; or
(ii)  tax credit specified in the special low-income housing tax credit
certificate that the housing sponsor issues to the taxpayer as provided in
Subsection (2)(c).
(c)  For purposes of Subsection (2)(b)(ii), the tax credit is equal to the
product of:
(i)  the total amount of low-income housing tax credit under this section
that:
(A)  a housing sponsor is allowed for a building; and
(B)  all of the taxpayers may claim with respect to the building if the
taxpayers meet the requirements of this section; and
(ii)  the percentage of tax credit a taxpayer may claim:
(A)  under this section if the taxpayer meets the requirements of this
section; and
(B)  as provided in the agreement between the taxpayer and the housing
sponsor.
(d) (i)  For the calendar year beginning on January 1, 1995, through the
calendar year beginning on January 1, 2015, the aggregate annual tax credit
that the Utah Housing Corporation may allocate for the credit period described
in Section 42(f), Internal Revenue Code, pursuant to this section and Section
59-10-1010 is an amount equal to the product of:
(A)  12.5 cents; and
(B)  the population of Utah.
(ii)  For purposes of this section, the population of Utah shall be determined
in accordance with Section 146(j), Internal Revenue Code.
(3) (a)  By October 1, 1994, the Utah Housing Corporation shall determine
criteria and procedures for allocating the tax credit under this section and
Section 59-10-1010 and incorporate the criteria and procedures into the Utah
Housing Corporation's qualified allocation plan.
(b)  The Utah Housing Corporation shall create the criteria under Subsection
(3)(a) based on:
(i)  the number of affordable housing units to be created in Utah for low and
moderate income persons in the residential housing development of which the
building is a part;
(ii)  the level of area median income being served by the development;
(iii)  the need for the tax credit for the economic feasibility of the
development; and
(iv)  the extended period for which the development commits to remain as
affordable housing.
(4) (a)  The following may apply to the Utah Housing Corporation for a tax
credit under this section:
(i)  any housing sponsor that has received an allocation of the federal low-
income housing tax credit; or
(ii)  any applicant for an allocation of the federal low-income housing tax
credit.
(b)  The Utah Housing Corporation may not require fees for applications of the
tax credit under this section in addition to those fees required for
applications for the federal low-income housing tax credit.
(5) (a)  The Utah Housing Corporation shall determine the amount of the tax
credit to allocate to a qualifying housing sponsor in accordance with the
qualified allocation plan of the Utah Housing Corporation.
(b) (i)  The Utah Housing Corporation shall allocate the tax credit to housing
sponsors by issuing an allocation certificate to qualifying housing sponsors.
(ii)  The allocation certificate under Subsection (5)(b)(i) shall specify the
allowed percentage of the federal low-income housing tax credit as determined
by the Utah Housing Corporation.
(c)  The percentage specified in an allocation certificate may not exceed 100%
of the federal low-income housing tax credit.
(6)  A housing sponsor shall provide a copy of the allocation certificate to
each taxpayer that is issued a special low-income housing tax credit
certificate.
(7) (a)  A housing sponsor shall provide to the commission a list of:
(i)  the taxpayers issued a special low-income housing tax credit certificate;
and
(ii)  for each taxpayer described in Subsection (7)(a)(i), the amount of tax
credit listed on the special low-income housing tax credit certificate.
(b)  A housing sponsor shall provide the list required by Subsection (7)(a):
(i)  to the commission;
(ii)  on a form provided by the commission; and
(iii)  with the housing sponsor's tax return for each taxable year for which
the housing sponsor issues a special low-income housing tax credit certificate
described in this Subsection (7).
(8) (a)  All elections made by the taxpayer pursuant to Section 42, Internal
Revenue Code, shall apply to this section.
(b) (i)  If a taxpayer is required to recapture a portion of any federal low-
income housing tax credit, the taxpayer shall also be required to recapture a
portion of any state tax credits authorized by this section.
(ii)  The state recapture amount shall be equal to the percentage of the state
tax credit that equals the proportion the federal recapture amount bears to
the original federal low-income housing tax credit amount subject to
recapture.
(9) (a)  Any tax credits returned to the Utah Housing Corporation in any year
may be reallocated within the same time period as provided in Section 42,
Internal Revenue Code.
(b)  Tax credits that are unallocated by the Utah Housing Corporation in any
year may be carried over for allocation in the subsequent year.
(10) (a)  Amounts otherwise qualifying for the tax credit, but not allowable
because the tax credit exceeds the tax, may be carried back three years or may
be carried forward five years as a credit against the tax.
(b)  Carryover tax credits under Subsection (10)(a) shall be applied against
the tax:
(i)  before the application of the tax credits earned in the current year; and
(ii)  on a first-earned first-used basis.
(11)  Any tax credit taken in this section may be subject to an annual audit
by the commission.
(12)  The Utah Housing Corporation shall provide an annual report to the
Revenue and Taxation Interim Committee which shall include at least:
(a)  the purpose and effectiveness of the tax credits; and
(b)  the benefits of the tax credits to the state.
(13)  The commission may, in consultation with the Utah Housing Corporation,
promulgate rules to implement this section.
