59-7-610.   Recycling market development zones tax credit.
(1)  For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1996, a business
operating in a recycling market development zone as defined in Section
63M-1-1102 may claim a tax credit as provided in this section.
(a) (i)  There shall be allowed a nonrefundable tax credit of 5% of the
purchase price paid for machinery and equipment used directly in:
(A)  commercial composting; or
(B)  manufacturing facilities or plant units that:
(I)  manufacture, process, compound, or produce recycled items of tangible
personal property for sale; or
(II)  reduce or reuse postconsumer waste material.
(ii)  The Governor's Office of Economic Development shall certify that the
machinery and equipment described in Subsection (1)(a)(i) are integral to the
composting or recycling process:
(A)  on a form provided by the commission; and
(B)  before a taxpayer is allowed a tax credit under this section.
(iii)  The Governor's Office of Economic Development shall provide a taxpayer
seeking to claim a tax credit under this section with a copy of the form
described in Subsection (1)(a)(ii).
(iv)  The taxpayer described in Subsection (1)(a)(iii) shall retain a copy of
the form received under Subsection (1)(a)(iii).
(b)  There shall be allowed a nonrefundable tax credit equal to 20% of net
expenditures up to $10,000 to third parties for rent, wages, supplies, tools,
test inventory, and utilities made by the taxpayer for establishing and
operating recycling or composting technology in Utah, with an annual maximum
tax credit of $2,000.
(2)  The total nonrefundable tax credit allowed under this section may not
exceed 40% of the Utah income tax liability of the taxpayer prior to any tax
credits in the taxable year of purchase prior to claiming the tax credit
authorized by this section.
(3) (a)  Any tax credit not used for the taxable year in which the purchase
price on composting or recycling machinery and equipment was paid may be
carried over for credit against the business' income taxes in the three
succeeding taxable years until the total tax credit amount is used.
(b)  Tax credits not claimed by a business on the business' state income tax
return within three years are forfeited.
(4)  The commission shall make rules governing what information shall be filed
with the commission to verify the entitlement to and amount of a tax credit.
(5) (a)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a), for taxable years beginning on or
after January 1, 2001, a taxpayer may not claim or carry forward a tax credit
described in Subsection (1)(a) in a taxable year during which the taxpayer
claims or carries forward a tax credit under Section 63M-1-413.
(b)  For a taxable year other than a taxable year during which the taxpayer
may not claim or carry forward a tax credit in accordance with Subsection
(5)(a), a taxpayer may claim or carry forward a tax credit described in
Subsection (1)(a):
(i)  if the taxpayer may claim or carry forward the tax credit in accordance
with Subsections (1) and (2); and
(ii)  subject to Subsections (3) and (4).
(6)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(b), for taxable years beginning on or
after January 1, 2001, a taxpayer may not claim a tax credit described in
Subsection (1)(b) in a taxable year during which the taxpayer claims or
carries forward a tax credit under Section 63M-1-413.
(7)  A taxpayer may not claim or carry forward a tax credit available under
this section for a taxable year during which the taxpayer has claimed the
targeted business income tax credit available under Section 63M-1-504.
