59-7-614.   Renewable energy systems tax credit -- Definitions --
Limitations -- Certification -- Rulemaking authority.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Active solar system":
(i)  means a system of equipment capable of collecting and converting incident
solar radiation into thermal, mechanical, or electrical energy, and
transferring these forms of energy by a separate apparatus to storage or to
the point of use; and
(ii)  includes water heating, space heating or cooling, and electrical or
mechanical energy generation.
(b)  "Biomass system" means any system of apparatus and equipment for use in
converting material into biomass energy, as defined in Section 59-12-102, and
transporting that energy by separate apparatus to the point of use or storage.
(c)  "Business entity" means any sole proprietorship, estate, trust,
partnership, association, corporation, cooperative, or other entity under
which business is conducted or transacted.
(d)  "Commercial energy system" means any active solar, passive solar,
geothermal electricity, direct-use geothermal, geothermal heat-pump system,
wind, hydroenergy, or biomass system used to supply energy to a commercial
unit or as a commercial enterprise.
(e)  "Commercial enterprise" means a business entity whose purpose is to
produce electrical, mechanical, or thermal energy for sale from a commercial
energy system.
(f) (i)  "Commercial unit" means any building or structure that a business
entity uses to transact its business.
(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(f)(i):
(A)  in the case of an active solar system used for agricultural water pumping
or a wind system, each individual energy generating device shall be a
commercial unit; and
(B)  if an energy system is the building or structure that a business entity
uses to transact its business, a commercial unit is the complete energy system
itself.
(g)  "Direct-use geothermal system" means a system of apparatus and equipment
enabling the direct use of thermal energy, generally between 100 and 300
degrees Fahrenheit, that is contained in the earth to meet energy needs,
including heating a building, an industrial process, and aquaculture.
(h)  "Geothermal electricity" means energy contained in heat that continuously
flows outward from the earth that is used as a sole source of energy to
produce electricity.
(i)  "Geothermal heat-pump system" means a system of apparatus and equipment
enabling the use of thermal properties contained in the earth at temperatures
well below 100 degrees Fahrenheit to help meet heating and cooling needs of a
structure.
(j)  "Hydroenergy system" means a system of apparatus and equipment capable of
intercepting and converting kinetic water energy into electrical or mechanical
energy and transferring this form of energy by separate apparatus to the point
of use or storage.
(k)  "Individual taxpayer" means any person who is a taxpayer as defined in
Section 59-10-103 and an individual as defined in Section 59-10-103.
(l)  "Passive solar system":
(i)  means a direct thermal system that utilizes the structure of a building
and its operable components to provide for collection, storage, and
distribution of heating or cooling during the appropriate times of the year by
utilizing the climate resources available at the site; and
(ii)  includes those portions and components of a building that are expressly
designed and required for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar
energy.
(m)  "Residential energy system" means any active solar, passive solar,
biomass, direct-use geothermal, geothermal heat-pump system, wind, or
hydroenergy system used to supply energy to or for any residential unit.
(n)  "Residential unit" means any house, condominium, apartment, or similar
dwelling unit that serves as a dwelling for a person, group of persons, or a
family but does not include property subject to a fee under:
(i)  Section 59-2-404;
(ii)  Section 59-2-405;
(iii)  Section 59-2-405.1;
(iv)  Section 59-2-405.2; or
(v)  Section 59-2-405.3.
(o)  "Utah Geological Survey" means the Utah Geological Survey established in
Section 79-3-201.
(p)  "Wind system" means a system of apparatus and equipment capable of
intercepting and converting wind energy into mechanical or electrical energy
and transferring these forms of energy by a separate apparatus to the point of
use, sale, or storage.
(2) (a) (i)  For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2007, a
business entity that purchases and completes or participates in the financing
of a residential energy system to supply all or part of the energy required
for a residential unit owned or used by the business entity and situated in
Utah is entitled to a nonrefundable tax credit as provided in this Subsection
(2)(a).
(ii) (A)  A business entity is entitled to a tax credit equal to 25% of the
reasonable costs of each residential energy system installed with respect to
each residential unit it owns or uses, including installation costs, against
any tax due under this chapter for the taxable year in which the energy system
is completed and placed in service.
(B)  The total amount of each credit under this Subsection (2)(a) may not
exceed $2,000 per residential unit.
(C)  The credit under this Subsection (2)(a) is allowed for any residential
energy system completed and placed in service on or after January 1, 2007.
(iii)  If a business entity sells a residential unit to an individual taxpayer
before making a claim for the tax credit under this Subsection (2)(a), the
business entity may:
(A)  assign its right to this tax credit to the individual taxpayer; and
(B)  if the business entity assigns its right to the tax credit to an
individual taxpayer under Subsection (2)(a)(iii)(A), the individual taxpayer
may claim the tax credit as if the individual taxpayer had completed or
participated in the costs of the residential energy system under Section
59-10-1014.
(b) (i)  For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2007, a business
entity that purchases or participates in the financing of a commercial energy
system situated in Utah is entitled to a refundable tax credit as provided in
this Subsection (2)(b) if the commercial energy system does not use wind,
geothermal electricity, or biomass equipment capable of producing a total of
660 or more kilowatts of electricity, and:
(A)  the commercial energy system supplies all or part of the energy required
by commercial units owned or used by the business entity; or
(B)  the business entity sells all or part of the energy produced by the
commercial energy system as a commercial enterprise.
(ii) (A)  A business entity is entitled to a tax credit of up to 10% of the
reasonable costs of any commercial energy system installed, including
installation costs, against any tax due under this chapter for the taxable
year in which the commercial energy system is completed and placed in service.
(B)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(b)(ii)(A), the total amount of the credit
under this Subsection (2)(b) may not exceed $50,000 per commercial unit.
(C)  The credit under this Subsection (2)(b) is allowed for any commercial
energy system completed and placed in service on or after January 1, 2007.
(iii)  A business entity that leases a commercial energy system installed on a
commercial unit is eligible for the tax credit under this Subsection (2)(b) if
the lessee can confirm that the lessor irrevocably elects not to claim the
credit.
(iv)  Only the principal recovery portion of the lease payments, which is the
cost incurred by a business entity in acquiring a commercial energy system,
excluding interest charges and maintenance expenses, is eligible for the tax
credit under this Subsection (2)(b).
(v)  A business entity that leases a commercial energy system is eligible to
use the tax credit under this Subsection (2)(b) for a period no greater than
seven years from the initiation of the lease.
(vi)  A tax credit allowed by this Subsection (2)(b) may not be carried
forward or carried back.
(c) (i)  For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2007, a business
entity that owns a commercial energy system situated in Utah using wind,
geothermal electricity, or biomass equipment capable of producing a total of
660 or more kilowatts of electricity is entitled to a refundable tax credit as
provided in this Subsection (2)(c) if:
(A)  the commercial energy system supplies all or part of the energy required
by commercial units owned or used by the business entity; or
(B)  the business entity sells all or part of the energy produced by the
commercial energy system as a commercial enterprise.
(ii) (A)  A business entity is entitled to a tax credit under this section
equal to the product of:
(I)  0.35 cents; and
(II)  the kilowatt hours of electricity produced and either used or sold
during the taxable year.
(B) (I)  The credit calculated under Subsection (2)(c)(ii)(A) may be claimed
for production occurring during a period of 48 months beginning with the month
in which the commercial energy system is placed in commercial service.
(II)  The credit allowed by this Subsection (2)(c) for each year may not be
carried forward or carried back.
(C)  The credit under this Subsection (2)(c) is allowed for any commercial
energy system completed and placed in service on or after January 1, 2007.
(iii)  A business entity that leases a commercial energy system installed on a
commercial unit is eligible for the tax credit under this Subsection (2)(c) if
the lessee can confirm that the lessor irrevocably elects not to claim the
credit.
(d) (i)  A tax credit under Subsection (2)(a) or (b) may be claimed for the
taxable year in which the energy system is completed and placed in service.
(ii)  Additional energy systems or parts of energy systems may be claimed for
subsequent years.
(iii)  If the amount of a tax credit under Subsection (2)(a) exceeds a
business entity's tax liability under this chapter for a taxable year, the
amount of the credit exceeding the liability may be carried forward for a
period which does not exceed the next four taxable years.
(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(b), the tax credits provided for
under Subsection (2) are in addition to any tax credits provided under the
laws or rules and regulations of the United States.
(b)  A purchaser of one or more solar units that claims a tax credit under
Section 59-7-614.3 for the purchase of the one or more solar units may not
claim a tax credit under this section for that purchase.
(c) (i)  The Utah Geological Survey may set standards for residential and
commercial energy systems claiming a credit under Subsections (2)(a) and (b)
that cover the safety, reliability, efficiency, leasing, and technical
feasibility of the systems to ensure that the systems eligible for the tax
credit use the state's renewable and nonrenewable energy resources in an
appropriate and economic manner.
(ii)  The Utah Geological Survey may set standards for residential and
commercial energy systems that establish the reasonable costs of an energy
system, as used in Subsections (2)(a)(ii)(A) and (2)(b)(ii)(A), as an amount
per unit of energy production.
(iii)  A tax credit may not be taken under Subsection (2) until the Utah
Geological Survey has certified that the energy system has been completely
installed and is a viable system for saving or production of energy from
renewable resources.
(d)  The Utah Geological Survey and the commission may make rules in
accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, that
are necessary to implement this section.
(4) (a)  On or before October 1, 2012, and every five years thereafter, the
Utah Tax Review Commission shall review each tax credit provided by this
section and make recommendations to the Revenue and Taxation Interim Committee
concerning whether the credit should be continued, modified, or repealed.
(b)  The Utah Tax Review Commission's report under Subsection (4)(a) shall
include information concerning the cost of the credit, the purpose and
effectiveness of the credit, and the state's benefit from the credit.
