54-1-3.   Transaction of business by commissioners -- Quorum -- Proceedings
by less than majority or administrative law judge -- Effect of actions.
(1)  A majority of the commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business, for the performance of any duty or for the
exercise of any power of the commission.  Any action taken by a majority of
the commission shall be considered the action of the commission.  Any vacancy
in the commission shall not impair the right of the remaining commissioners to
exercise all the powers of the commission so long as a majority of the
commission remains.  The commission may hold hearings at any time or place
within or without the state.
(2) (a)  The following proceedings shall be heard by at least a majority of
the commissioners:
(i)  general rate proceedings to establish rates for public utilities which
have annual revenues generated from Utah utility service in excess of
$200,000,000; or
(ii)  any proceeding which the commission determines involves an issue of
significant public interest.
(b)  If a commission proceeding requiring a majority has commenced and the
unavoidable absence of one or more commissioners results in less than a
majority being available to continue the proceeding, the proceeding may
continue before a single commissioner or specified administrative law judge
only upon agreement of the involved public utility and, if it is a party, the
Division of Public Utilities.
(3)  Any other investigation, inquiry, hearing or proceeding which the
commission has power to undertake may be conducted before less than a majority
of the commission or before an administrative law judge appointed by the
commission.
(4)  All proceedings conducted before less than a majority of the commission
or before an administrative law judge shall be considered proceedings of the
commission and the findings, orders, and decisions made by less than a
majority of the commission or by an administrative law judge, when approved
and confirmed by the commission and filed in its office, shall be considered
findings, orders, and decisions of the commission and shall have the same
effect as if originally made by the commission.
