58-70a-102.   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:

(1)  "Board" means the Physician Assistant Licensing Board created in Section 58-70a-201.

(2) (a)  "Delegation of services agreement" means written criteria jointly developed by a physician assistant's supervising physician and any substitute supervising physicians and the physician assistant, that permits a physician assistant, working under the direction or review of the supervising physician, to assist in the management of common illnesses and injuries.

(b)  The agreement defines the working relationship and delegation of duties between the supervising physician and the physician assistant as specified by division rule and shall include:

(i)  the prescribing of controlled substances;

(ii)  the degree and means of supervision;

(iii)  the frequency and mechanism of chart review;

(iv)  procedures addressing situations outside the scope of practice of the physician assistant; and

(v)  procedures for providing backup for the physician assistant in emergency situations.

(3)  "Direct supervision" means the supervising physician is:

(a)  physically present at the point of patient treatment on site where the physician assistant he is supervising is practicing; and

(b)  immediately available for consultation with the physician assistant.

(4)  "Practice as a physician assistant" means:

(a)  the professional activities and conduct of a physician assistant in diagnosing, treating, advising, or prescribing for any human disease, ailment, injury, infirmity, deformity, pain, or other condition, dependent upon and under the supervision of a supervising physician or substitute supervising physician in accordance with a delegation of services agreement; and

(b)  the physician assistant acts as the agent of the supervising physician or substitute supervising physician when acting in accordance with a delegation of services agreement.

(5)  "Substitute supervising physician" means an individual who meets the requirements of a supervising physician under this chapter and acts as the supervising physician in the absence of the supervising physician.

(6)  "Supervising physician" means an individual who:

(a)  is currently licensed to practice under Title 58, Chapter 67, Utah Medical Practice Act, or Title 58, Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act;

(b)  acts as the primary supervisor of a physician assistant and takes responsibility for the professional practice and conduct of a physician assistant in accordance with this chapter; and

(c)  is not an employee of the physician assistant he supervises.

(7)  "Supervision" means the supervising physician is available for consultation with the physician assistant, either personally or by other means permitting direct verbal communication between the physician and physician assistant.

(8)  "Unlawful conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-70a-502.

(9)  "Unprofessional conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-70a-503 and as may be further defined by rule.

