31A-26-207.   Examination requirements.

(1)  The commissioner may require applicants for any particular class of license under Section 31A-26-204 to pass an examination as a requirement to receiving a license.  The examination shall reasonably relate to the specific license class for which it is prescribed.  The examinations may be administered by the commissioner or as specified by rule.

(2)  The commissioner shall waive the requirement of an examination for a nonresident applicant who:

(a)  applies for an insurance adjuster license in this state;

(b)  has been licensed for the same line of authority in another state; and

(c) (i)  is licensed in the state described in Subsection (2)(b) at the time the applicant applies for an insurance producer license in this state; or

(ii)  if the application is received within 90 days of the cancellation of the applicant's previous license:

(A)  the prior state certifies that at the time of cancellation, the applicant was in good standing in that state; or

(B)  the state's producer database records maintained by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or the National Association of Insurance Commissioner's affiliates or subsidiaries, indicates that the producer is or was licensed in good standing for the line of authority requested.

(3) (a)  To become a resident licensee in accordance with Sections 31A-26-202 and 31A-26-203, a person licensed as an insurance producer in another state who moves to this state shall make application within 90 days of establishing legal residence in this state.

(b)  A person who becomes a resident licensee under Subsection (3)(a) may not be required to meet prelicensing education or examination requirements to obtain any line of authority previously held in the prior state unless:

(i)  the prior state would require a prior resident of this state to meet the prior state's prelicensing education or examination requirements to become a resident licensee; or

(ii)  the commissioner imposes the requirements by rule.

(4)  The requirements of this section only apply to applicants who are natural persons.

(5)  The requirements of this section do not apply to members of the Utah State Bar.

