31A-26-215.   Temporary license -- Appointment of trustee for terminated
licensee's business.
(1) (a)  The commissioner may issue a temporary insurance adjuster license:
(i)  to a person listed in Subsection (1)(b):
(A)  if the commissioner considers that the temporary license is necessary:
(I)  for the servicing of an insurance business in the public interest; and
(II)  to provide continued service to the insureds who are being serviced in a
circumstance described in Subsection (1)(b);
(B)  for a period not to exceed 180 days; and
(C)  without requiring an examination; or
(ii)  in any other circumstance:
(A)  if the commissioner considers the public interest will best be served by
issuing the temporary license;
(B)  for a period not to exceed 180 days; and
(C)  without requiring an examination.
(b)  The commissioner may issue a temporary insurance producer license in
accordance with Subsection (1)(a) to:
(i)  the surviving spouse or court-appointed personal representative of a
licensed insurance adjuster who dies or becomes mentally or physically
disabled to allow adequate time for:
(A)  the sale of the insurance business owned by the adjuster;
(B)  recovery or return of the adjuster to the business; or
(C)  the training and licensing of new personnel to operate the adjuster's
business;
(ii)  to a member or employee of a business entity licensed as an insurance
adjuster upon the death or disability of an individual designated in:
(A)  the business entity application; or
(B)  the license; or
(iii)  the designee of a licensed insurance adjuster entering active service
in the armed forces of the United States of America.
(2)  If a person's license is terminated under Section 31A-26-213, the
commissioner may appoint a trustee to provide in the public interest
continuing service to the insureds who procured insurance through the person
whose license is terminated:
(a)  at the request of the person whose license is terminated; or
(b)  upon the commissioner's own initiative.
(3)  This section does not apply if the deceased or disabled adjuster has not
owned or does not own an ownership interest in the accounts and associated
expiration lists that were previously serviced by the adjuster.
(4) (a)  A person issued a temporary license under Subsection (1) receives the
license and shall perform the duties under the license subject to the
commissioner's authority to:
(i)  require a temporary licensee to have a suitable sponsor who:
(A)  is a licensed producer; and
(B)  assumes responsibility for all acts of the temporary licensee; or
(ii)  impose other requirements that are:
(A)  designed to protect the insureds and the public; and
(B)  similar to the condition described in Subsection (4)(a)(i).
(b)  A trustee appointed under Subsection (2) shall receive the trustee's
appointment and perform the trustee's duties subject to the conditions listed
in Subsections (4)(b)(i) through (xv).
(i)  A trustee appointed under this section shall be licensed under this
chapter to perform the services required by the trustor's clients.
(ii)  When possible, the commissioner shall appoint a trustee who is no longer
actively engaged on the trustee's own behalf in business as an adjuster.
(iii)  The commissioner shall only select a person to act as trustee who is
trustworthy and competent to perform the necessary services.
(iv)  If the deceased, disabled, or unlicensed person for whom the trustee is
acting is an associated adjuster, the insurers through or with which the
former adjuster's business was associated shall cooperate with the trustee in
allowing the trustee to service the claims associated with or through the
insurer.
(v)  The trustee shall abide by the terms of any agreement between the former
adjuster and the associated insurer, except that terms in those agreements
terminating the agreement upon the death, disability, or license termination
of the former agent do not bar the trustee from continuing to act under the
agreement.
(vi)  The commissioner shall set the trustee's compensation which:
(A)  may be stated in terms of a percentage of commissions;
(B)  shall be equitable; and
(C)  paid exclusively from:
(I)  the commissions generated by the former adjuster's accounts serviced by
the trustee; and
(II)  other funds the former adjuster or the former adjuster's successor in
interest agree to pay.
(vii)  The trustee has no special priority to commissions over the former
adjuster's creditors.
(viii)  The following may not be held liable for errors or omissions of the
former adjuster or the trustee:
(A)  the commissioner; or
(B)  the state.
(ix)  The trustee may not be held liable for errors and omissions that were
caused in any material way by the negligence of the former adjuster.
(x)  The trustee may be held liable for errors and omissions that arise solely
from the trustee's negligence.
(xi)  The trustee's compensation level shall be sufficient to allow the
trustee to purchase errors and omissions coverage, if that coverage is not
provided to the trustee by:
(A)  the former adjuster; or
(B)  the former adjuster's successor in interest.
(xii)  It is a breach of the trustee's fiduciary duty to capture the accounts
of trustor's clients, either directly or indirectly.
(xiii)  The trustee may not purchase the accounts or expiration lists of the
former adjuster, unless the commissioner expressly ratifies the terms of the
sale.
(xiv)  The commissioner may adopt rules that:
(A)  further define the trustee's fiduciary duties; and
(B)  explain how the trustee is to carry out the trustee's responsibilities.
(xv)  The trust may be terminated by:
(A)  the commissioner; or
(B)  the person that requested the trust be established.
(c)  A person described in Subsection (4)(b)(xv)(B) shall terminate the trust
by sending written notice to:
(i)  the trustee; and
(ii)  the commissioner.
(5) (a)  The commissioner may by order limit the authority of any temporary
licensee or trustee in any way considered necessary to protect:
(i)  persons being serviced; and
(ii)  the public.
(b)  The commissioner may by order revoke a temporary license or trustee's
appointment if the interest of persons being serviced or the public are
endangered.
(c)  A temporary license or trustee's appointment may not continue after the
owner or personal representative disposes of the business.
