31A-26-301.5.   Health care claims practices.
(1)  Except as provided in Section 31A-8-407, an insured retains ultimate
responsibility for paying for health care services the insured receives. If a
service is covered by one or more individual or group health insurance
policies, all insurers covering the insured have the responsibility to pay
valid health care claims in a timely manner according to the terms and limits
specified in the policies.
(2) (a) Except as provided in Section 31A-22-610.1, a health care provider may
bill and collect for any deductible, copayment, or uncovered service.
(b)  A health care provider may bill an insured for services covered by health
insurance  policies or may otherwise notify the insured of the expenses
covered by the policies.  However, a provider may not make any report to a
credit bureau, use the services of a collection agency, or use methods other
than routine billing or notification until the later of:
(i)  the expiration of the time afforded to an insurer under Section
31A-26-301.6 to determine its obligation to pay or deny the claim without
penalty; or
(ii)  in the case of medicare beneficiaries or retirees 65 years of age or
older, 60 days from the date medicare determines its liability for the claim.
(c)  Beginning October 31, 1992, all  insurers covering the insured shall
notify the insured of payment and the amount of payment made to the provider.
(3)  The commissioner shall make rules consistent with this chapter governing
disclosure to the insured of customary charges by health care providers on the
explanation of benefits as part of the claims payment process.  These rules
shall be limited to the form and content of the disclosures on the explanation
of benefits, and shall include:
(a)  a requirement that the method of determination of any specifically
referenced customary charges and the range of the customary charges be
disclosed; and
(b)  a prohibition against an implication that the provider is charging
excessively if the provider is:
(i)  a participating provider; and
(ii)  prohibited from balance billing.
