51-7-18.1.   Qualified depositories list -- Reports -- Treatment of
confidential information -- Powers -- Staff -- Limits on powers.
(1) (a)  The council shall provide a list of qualified depositories to each
public treasurer at least semiannually.
(b)  The list shall include:
(i)  the name of each qualified depository; and
(ii)  the maximum amount of public funds that each qualified depository is
eligible to hold.
(2)  In determining the maximum amount of public deposits for a qualified
depository, the council may not designate a maximum amount for any qualified
depository that is more than twice that depository's capital as defined by
council rule.
(3) (a)  The council may require each qualified depository to submit monthly
reports to the commissioner of Financial Institutions disclosing the amount of
public funds held by the depository at the close of business on a day
designated by the council.
(b)  The council may also require the qualified depository to include in the
report:
(i)  information about the character and condition of the qualified
depository's assets;
(ii)  information about the qualified depository's deposits and other
liabilities;
(iii)  information about the qualified depository's capital; and
(iv)  any other information that the council considers necessary in order for
it to fulfill its responsibilities under this chapter.
(c)  The council shall require that any reports submitted be verified by the
oath or affirmation of the president or vice-president of the qualified
depository.
(d)  Any officer of a qualified depository who knowingly makes or causes to be
made any false statement or report to the council or any false entry in the
books or accounts of the qualified depository is guilty of a class A
misdemeanor.
(4) (a)  Notwithstanding Section 7-1-802, the commissioner may disclose
necessary information about the condition of any qualified depository to the
council to assist it in evaluating the eligibility of any qualified depository
to receive and hold public funds.
(b)  If the secretary of the council or any member of the council discloses
confidential information obtained from the commissioner under this subsection,
he is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.
(c)  If any member of the council discloses confidential information obtained
from the commissioner under this subsection, the governor shall remove him
from his position.
(5)  Upon the vote of at least three of the council members, the commissioner
shall require any qualified depository to:
(a)  surrender deposits of public funds that exceed the amount that the
qualified depository may legally hold under authority of this chapter and
council rule; or
(b)  pledge collateral security for those excess deposits.
(6) (a)  If the commissioner orders the qualified depository to pledge
collateral security for the excess deposits, the collateral security pledged
shall have a market value determined upon the last day of the month of:
(i)  110% of the amount of the excess deposits, if the collateral consists of
obligations of or fully guaranteed by the United States or its agencies as to
principal and interest, a segregated earmarked deposit account, or notes,
drafts, bills of exchange, or bankers' acceptances that are eligible for
rediscount or purchase by a federal reserve bank;
(ii)  120% of the amount of the excess deposits, if the collateral consists of
obligations of the state of Utah or any of its political subdivisions; and
(iii)  130% of the amount of the excess deposits, if the collateral consists
of obligations of other readily marketable bonds, notes, or debentures.
(b)  The qualified depository shall deposit any collateral pledged to secure
excess deposits with the state treasurer.
(c)  The state treasurer may not release the collateral until he has received
written confirmation from the commissioner that the qualified depository:
(i)  has relinquished the excess deposits; or
(ii)  is in compliance with this chapter and council rules.
(7)  Any qualified depository that fails to comply with a written order issued
by the commissioner under authority of this section within 15 days of receipt
of the order is ineligible to receive or renew any deposits or investments of
public funds until it receives written authorization to do so from the
council.
(8)  In addition to the requirements set forth by rule, in order to be
certified as a qualified depository as defined in Section 51-7-3, a depository
institution shall pay to the commissioner an annual certification fee of $250
due April 1 of each year.
