63H-3-103.   Creation -- Members -- Chair -- Powers -- Quorum -- Per diem and expenses.

(1)  There is created an independent state agency and a body politic and corporate known as the "Utah Science Center Authority."

(2) (a)  The authority is composed of 13 members.

(b)  The governor shall appoint:

(i)  three members representing the informal science and arts community that could include members from the board of directors of the Hansen Planetarium, the Hogle Zoo, the Children's Museum of Utah, the Utah Museum of Natural History, and other related museums, centers, and agencies;

(ii)  one member of the State Board of Education;

(iii)  one member of the Department of Heritage and Arts;

(iv)  one member of the Board of Tourism Development;

(v)  one member of the State Board of Regents; and

(vi)  three public members representing Utah industry, the diverse regions of the state, and the public at large.

(c)  The county legislative body of Salt Lake County shall appoint one member to represent Salt Lake County.

(d)  The mayor of Salt Lake City shall appoint one member to represent Salt Lake City Corporation.

(e)  The State Science Advisor or the advisor's designee is also a member of the authority.

(f)  In appointing the three public members, the governor shall ensure that there is representation from the science, technology, and business communities.

(3)  All members shall be residents of Utah.

(4)  Each member is appointed for four-year terms beginning July 1 of the year appointed.

(5) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (5)(b), as terms of current authority members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (5)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of authority members are staggered so that approximately half of the authority is appointed every two years.

(6)  A member may be removed from office by the governor or for cause by an affirmative vote of nine members of the authority.

(7)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement is appointed by the governor for the unexpired term.

(8)  Each public member shall hold office for the term of the member's appointment and until the member's successor has been appointed and qualified.

(9)  A public member is eligible for reappointment, but may not serve more than two full consecutive terms.

(10)  The governor shall appoint the chair of the authority from among its members.

(11)  The members shall elect from among their number a vice chair and other officers they may determine.

(12)  The chair and vice chair are elected for two-year terms.

(13)  The powers of the authority are vested in its members.

(14)  Seven members constitute a quorum for transaction of authority business.

(15)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 212, 2012 General Session

