35A-1-102.   Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified, as used in this title:
(1)  "Client" means an individual who the department has determined to be
eligible for services or benefits under:
(a)  Chapter 3, Employment Support Act; and
(b)  Chapter 5, Training and Workforce Improvement Act.
(2)  "Consortium of counties" means an organization composed of all the
counties within a regional workforce services area designated under Section
35A-2-101:
(a)  in which representatives of county government consisting of county
commissioners, county council members, county executives, or county mayors
jointly comply with this title in working with the executive director of the
department regarding regional workforce services areas; and
(b) (i)  that existed as of July 1, 1997; or
(ii)  that is created on or after July 1, 1997, with the approval of the
executive director.
(3)  "Department" means the Department of Workforce Services created in
Section 35A-1-103.
(4)  "Employment assistance" means services or benefits provided by the
department under:
(a)  Chapter 3, Employment Support Act; and
(b)  Chapter 5, Training and Workforce Improvement Act.
(5)  "Employment center" is a location in a regional workforce services area
where the services provided by a regional workforce services area under
Section 35A-2-201 may be accessed by a client.
(6)  "Employment counselor" means an individual responsible for developing an
employment plan and coordinating the services and benefits under this title in
accordance with Chapter 2, Regional Workforce Services Areas.
(7)  "Employment plan" means a written agreement between the department and a
client that describes:
(a)  the relationship between the department and the client;
(b)  the obligations of the department and the client; and
(c)  the result if an obligation is not fulfilled by the department or the
client.
(8)  "Executive director" means the executive director of the department
appointed under Section 35A-1-201.
(9)  "Public assistance" means:
(a)  services or benefits provided under Chapter 3, Employment Support Act;
(b)  medical assistance provided under Title 26, Chapter 18, Medical
Assistance Act;
(c)  foster care maintenance payments provided from the General Fund or under
Title IV-E of the Social Security Act;
(d)  food stamps; and
(e)  any other public funds expended for the benefit of a person in need of
financial, medical, food, housing, or related assistance.
(10)  "Regional workforce services area" means a regional workforce services
area established in accordance with Chapter 2, Regional Workforce Services
Areas.
(11)  "Stabilization" means addressing the basic living, family care, and
social or psychological needs of the client so that the client may take
advantage of training or employment opportunities provided under this title or
through other agencies or institutions.
