35A-1-201.   Executive director -- Appointment -- Removal -- Compensation -- Qualifications -- Responsibilities -- Deputy directors -- Reports.

(1) (a)  The chief administrative officer of the department is the executive director, who is appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate.

(b)  The executive director serves at the pleasure of the governor.

(c)  The executive director shall receive a salary established by the governor within the salary range fixed by the Legislature in Title 67, Chapter 22, State Officer Compensation.

(d)  The executive director shall be experienced in administration, management, and coordination of complex organizations.

(2)  The executive director shall:

(a)  administer and supervise the department in compliance with Title 67, Chapter 19, Utah State Personnel Management Act;

(b)  supervise and coordinate between the economic service areas and directors created under Chapter 2, Economic Service Areas;

(c)  coordinate policies and program activities conducted through the divisions and economic service areas of the department;

(d)  approve the proposed budget of each division, the Workforce Appeals Board, and each economic service area within the department;

(e)  approve all applications for federal grants or assistance in support of any department program; and

(f)  fulfill such other duties as assigned by the Legislature or as assigned by the governor that are not inconsistent with this title.

(3)  The executive director may appoint deputy or assistant directors to assist the executive director in carrying out the department’s responsibilities.

(4) (a)  The executive director shall report annually to the Legislature and the governor concerning the operations of the department and the programs that the department administers.

(b)  If federal law requires that a report to the governor or Legislature be given concerning the department or a program administered by the department, the executive director or the executive director's designee shall make that report.

(5)  The executive director shall at least annually provide for the sharing of information between the advisory councils established under this title.

