35A-1-205.   Workforce Appeals Board -- Chair -- Appointment -- Compensation -- Qualifications.

(1)  There is created the Workforce Appeals Board within the department consisting of one or more panels to hear and decide appeals from the decision of an administrative law judge.

(2) (a)  A panel shall consist of three impartial members appointed by the governor as follows:

(i)  the board chair, appointed in accordance with Subsection (5);

(ii)  one member appointed to represent employers; and  in making this appointment, the governor shall consider nominations from employer organizations; and

(iii)  one member appointed to represent employees; and in making this appointment, the governor shall consider nominations from employee organizations.

(b)  No more than two members of a panel may belong to the same political party.

(3) (a) (i)  The term of a member shall be six years beginning on March 1 of the year the member is appointed, except as otherwise provided in Subsection (3)(a)(ii).

(ii)  The governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of members are staggered so that approximately one third of the members are appointed every two years.

(b)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(c)  The governor may remove a member for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance or misfeasance in office, or other good and sufficient cause.

(d)  A member shall hold office until a successor is appointed and has qualified.

(4) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), a member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(i)  Section 63A-3-106;

(ii)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(iii)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(b)  The member appointed as board chair in accordance with Subsection (5) shall be compensated at an hourly rate determined by the Department of Human Resource Management in accordance with Title 67, Chapter 19, Utah State Personnel Management Act.

(5) (a)  The chief officer of the board shall be the chair, who shall serve as the executive and administrative head of the board.

(b)  The chair shall be appointed by the governor to represent the public and may be removed from that position at the will of the governor.

(c)  The chair shall be experienced in administration and possess any additional qualifications determined by the governor.

(6) (a)  The chair shall designate an alternate from a panel appointed under this section:

(i)  in the absence of a regular member or the chair; or

(ii)  if the regular member or the chair has a conflict of interest.

(b)  Each case shall be decided by a full three-member panel.

(7)  The department shall provide the Workforce Appeals Board necessary staff support, except, the board may employ, retain, or appoint legal counsel.



Amended by Chapter 286, 2010 General Session

