35A-1-206.   State Council on Workforce Services -- Appointment --
Membership -- Terms of members -- Compensation.
(1)  There is created a State Council on Workforce Services that shall:
(a)  perform the activities described in Subsection (8);
(b)  advise on issues requested by the department and the Legislature; and
(c)  make recommendations to the department regarding:
(i)  the implementation of Chapters 2, 3, and 5; and
(ii)  the coordination of apprenticeship training.
(2) (a)  The council shall consist of the following voting members:
(i)  each chair of a regional workforce services council appointed under
Section 35A-2-103;
(ii)  the superintendent of public instruction or the superintendent's
designee;
(iii)  the commissioner of higher education or the commissioner's designee;
and
(iv)  the following members appointed by the governor in consultation with the
executive director:
(A)  four representatives of small employers as defined by rule by the
department;
(B)  four representatives of large employers as defined by rule by the
department;
(C)  four representatives of employees or employee organizations, including at
least one representative from nominees suggested by public employees
organizations;
(D)  two representatives of the clients served under this title including
community-based organizations;
(E)  a representative of veterans in the state; and
(F)  the executive director of the Utah State Office of Rehabilitation.
(b)  The following shall serve as nonvoting ex officio members of the council:
(i)  the executive director or the executive director's designee;
(ii)  a legislator appointed by the governor from nominations of the speaker
of the House of Representatives and president of the Senate;
(iii)  the executive director of the Department of Human Services;
(iv)  the director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development or the
director's designee; and
(v)  the executive director of the Department of Health.
(3) (a)  The governor shall appoint one nongovernmental member from the
council to be the chair.
(b)  The chair shall serve at the pleasure of the governor.
(4) (a)  A member appointed by the governor shall serve a term of four years
and may be reappointed to one additional term.
(b)  A member shall continue to serve until the member’s successor has been
appointed and qualified.
(c)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(d), as terms of council members
expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a
four-year term.
(d)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (4)(c), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that
approximately one half of the council is appointed every two years.
(e)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(5)  A majority of the voting members constitutes a quorum for the transaction
of business.
(6) (a) (i)  A public member may not receive compensation for the member's
services, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of
the member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of
Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A public member may decline to receive per diem and expenses for the
member's service.
(b) (i)  A state government member who does not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the state for the member's service may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official duties as a
member at the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections
63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A state government member who is a member because of the member's state
government position may not receive per diem or expenses for the member's
service.
(iii)  A state government member may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for the member's service.
(c)  A legislator on the council shall receive compensation and expenses as
provided by law and legislative rule.
(d)  A higher education member who does not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that the member represents for the member's service
may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's
official duties from the council at the rates established by the Division of
Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(e) (i)  A local government member who does not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that the member represents for the member's service
may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's
official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A local government member may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for the member's service.
(7)  The department shall provide staff and administrative support to the
council at the direction of the executive director.
(8)  The council shall:
(a)  develop a state workforce services plan in accordance with Section
35A-1-207;
(b)  review regional workforce services plans to certify consistency with
state policy guidelines;
(c)  work cooperatively with regional councils on workforce services to
oversee regional workforce services area operations and to ensure that
services are being delivered in accordance with regional workforce services
plans;
(d)  oversee the department's provision of technical assistance to the
regional workforce services areas;
(e)  evaluate program performance, customer satisfaction, and other indicators
to identify program strengths and weaknesses;
(f)  based on the evaluation conducted under Subsection (8)(e) develop plans
to improve program outcomes;
(g)  improve the understanding and visibility of state workforce services
efforts through external and internal marketing strategies;
(h)  make an annual report of accomplishments to the governor and the
Legislature related to the activities of the department;
(i)  issue other studies, reports, or documents the council considers
advisable that are not required under Subsection (8)(h);
(j)  coordinate the planning and delivery of workforce development services
with public education, higher education, vocational rehabilitation, and human
services; and
(k)  perform other responsibilities within the scope of workforce services as
requested by:
(i)  the Legislature;
(ii)  the governor; or
(iii)  the executive director.
