78B-13-308.   Expedited enforcement of child custody determination.
(1)  A petition under this part shall be verified.  Certified copies of all
orders sought to be enforced and of the order confirming registration, if any,
shall be attached to the petition.  A copy of a certified copy of an order may
be attached instead of the original.
(2)  A petition for enforcement of a child custody determination shall state:
(a)  whether the court that issued the determination identified the
jurisdictional basis it relied upon in exercising jurisdiction and, if so,
what the basis was;
(b)  whether the determination for which enforcement is sought has been
vacated, stayed, or modified by a court whose decision shall be enforced under
this chapter or federal law and, if so, identify the court, the case number of
the proceeding, and the action taken;
(c)  whether any proceeding has been commenced that could affect the current
proceeding, including proceedings relating to domestic violence, protective
orders, termination of parental rights, and adoptions and, if so, identify the
court and the case number and the nature of the proceeding;
(d)  the present physical address of the child and the respondent, if known;
and
(e)  whether relief in addition to the immediate physical custody of the child
and attorney fees is sought, including a request for assistance from law
enforcement officials and, if so, the relief sought.
(3)  If the child custody determination has been registered and confirmed
under Section 78B-13-305, the petition shall also state the date and place of
registration.
(4)  The court shall issue an order directing the respondent to appear with or
without the child at a hearing and may enter any orders necessary to ensure
the safety of the parties and the child.
(5)  The hearing shall be held on the next judicial day following service of
process unless that date is impossible.  In that event, the court shall hold
the hearing on the first day possible.  The court may extend the date of
hearing at the request of the petitioner.
(6)  The order shall state the time and place of the hearing and shall advise
the respondent that at the hearing the court will order the delivery of the
child and the payment of fees, costs, and expenses under Section 78B-13-312,
and may set an additional hearing to determine whether further relief is
appropriate, unless the respondent appears and establishes that:
(a)  the child custody determination has not been registered and confirmed
under Section 78B-13-305, and that:
(i)  the issuing court did not have jurisdiction under Part 2, Jurisdiction;
(ii)  the child custody determination for which enforcement is sought has been
vacated, stayed, or modified by a court of a state having jurisdiction to do
so under Part 2, Jurisdiction, or federal law; or
(iii)  the respondent was entitled to notice, but notice was not given in
accordance with the standards of Section 78B-13-108 in the proceedings before
the court that issued the order for which enforcement is sought; or
(b)  the child custody determination for which enforcement is sought was
registered and confirmed under Section 78B-13-305, but has been vacated,
stayed, or modified by a court of a state having jurisdiction to do so under
Part 2, Jurisdiction, or federal law.
