32A-3-106.   Operational restrictions.
(1) (a)  A package agency may not be operated until a package agency agreement
has been entered into by the package agent and the department.
(b)  The agreement shall state the conditions of operation by which the
package agent and the department are bound.
(c)  If the package agent violates the conditions, terms, or covenants
contained in the agreement or violates any provisions of this title, the
department may take whatever action against the agent that is allowed by the
package agency agreement.
(d)  Actions against the package agent are governed solely by the agreement
and may include suspension or revocation of the agency.
(2) (a)  A package agency may not purchase liquor from any person except from
the department.
(b)  At the discretion of the department, liquor may be provided by the
department to a package agency for sale on consignment.
(3)  The department may pay or otherwise remunerate a package agent on any
basis including sales or volume of business done by the agency.
(4)  Liquor may not be sold from any package agency except in a sealed
package.  The package may not be opened on the premises of a package agency.
(5)  A package agency may not display liquor or price lists in windows or
showcases visible to passersby.
(6) (a)  An officer, agent, clerk, or employee of a package agency may not
consume or allow to be consumed by any person any alcoholic beverage on the
premises of a package agency.
(b)  Violation of this Subsection (6) is a class B misdemeanor.
(7)  Liquor may not be sold except at prices fixed by the commission.
(8)  Liquor may not be sold, delivered, or furnished to any:
(a)  minor;
(b)  person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;
(c)  known habitual drunkard; or
(d)  known interdicted person.
(9) (a)  Subject to the other provisions of this Subsection (9), sale or
delivery of liquor may not be made on or from the premises of a package agency
nor may a package agency be kept open for the sale of liquor:
(i) (A)  on Sunday; or
(B)  on a state or federal legal holiday; and
(ii)  except on days and during hours as the commission may direct by rule or
order.
(b)  The restrictions in Subsection (9)(a)(i) govern unless:
(i)  the package agency is located at a winery licensed under Chapter 8,
Manufacturing Licenses;
(ii)  the winery licensed under Chapter 8, Manufacturing Licenses, holds:
(A)  a restaurant liquor license under Chapter 4, Part 1, Restaurant Liquor
Licenses; or
(B)  a limited restaurant license under Chapter 4, Part 3, Limited Restaurant
Licenses;
(iii)  the restaurant described in Subsection (9)(b)(ii) is located at the
winery;
(iv)  the restaurant described in Subsection (9)(b)(ii) sells wines produced
at the winery;
(v)  the winery described in Subsection (9)(b)(i):
(A)  owns the restaurant; or
(B)  operates the restaurant;
(vi)  the package agency only sells wine produced at the winery; and
(vii)  the package agency's days and hours of sale are the same as the days
and hours of sale at the restaurant described in Subsection (9)(b)(ii).
(c) (i)  Subsection (9)(a)(i) does not apply to a package agency held by a
resort licensee if the package agency that contracts with the department to
sell liquor does not sell liquor in a manner similar to a state store.
(ii)  The commission may by rule made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, define what constitutes a package agency
that sells liquor "in a manner similar to a state store."
(10)  The package agency certificate issued by the commission shall be
permanently posted in a conspicuous place in the package agency.
(11)  A package agent shall display in a prominent place in the package agency
a sign in large letters stating: "Warning: Driving under the influence of
alcohol or drugs is a serious crime that is prosecuted aggressively in Utah."
(12) (a)  A package agency may not close or cease operation for a period
longer than 72 hours, unless:
(i)  the package agency notifies the department in writing at least seven days
before the closing; and
(ii)  the closure or cessation of operation is first approved by the
department.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (12)(a), in the case of emergency closure,
immediate notice of closure shall be made to the department by telephone.
(c) (i)  The department may authorize a closure or cessation of operation for
a period not to exceed 60 days.
(ii)  The department may extend the initial period an additional 30 days upon
written request of the package agency and upon a showing of good cause.
(iii)  A closure or cessation of operation may not exceed a total of 90 days
without commission approval.
(d)  The notice required by Subsection (12)(a) shall include:
(i)  the dates of closure or cessation of operation;
(ii)  the reason for the closure or cessation of operation; and
(iii)  the date on which the agency will reopen or resume operation.
(e)  Failure of the agency to provide notice and to obtain department
authorization prior to closure or cessation of operation shall result in an
automatic termination of the package agency contract effective immediately.
(f)  Failure of the agency to reopen or resume operation by the approved date
shall result in an automatic termination of the package agency contract
effective on that date.
(13)  Liquor may not be stored or sold in any place other than as designated
in the package agent's application, unless the package agent first applies for
and receives approval from the department for a change of location within the
package agency premises.
(14) (a)  Except to the extent authorized by commission rule, a minor may not
be admitted into, or be on the premises of a package agency unless accompanied
by a person who is:
(i)  21 years of age or older; and
(ii)  the minor's parent, legal guardian, or spouse.
(b) A package agent or employee of the package agency that has reason to
believe that a person who is on the premises of a package agency store is
under the age of 21 and is not accompanied by a person described in Subsection
(14)(a) may:
(i)  ask the suspected minor for proof of age;
(ii)  ask the person who accompanies the suspected minor for proof of age; and
(iii)  ask the suspected minor or the person who accompanies the suspected
minor for proof of parental, guardianship, or spousal relationship.
(c) A package agent or employee of a package agency shall refuse to sell
liquor to the suspected minor and to the person who accompanies the suspected
minor into the package agency if the minor or person fails to provide any
information specified in Subsection (14)(b).
(d) A package agent or employee of a package agency shall require the
suspected minor and the person who accompanies the suspected minor into the
package agency to immediately leave the premises of the package agency if the
minor or person fails to provide information specified in Subsection (14)(b).
(15)  A package agency may not transfer its operations from one location to
another location without prior written approval of the commission.
(16) (a)  A person, having been granted a package agency, may not sell,
transfer, assign, exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of
the package agency to any other person, whether for monetary gain or not.
(b)  A package agency has no monetary value for the purpose of any type of
disposition.
