31A-32a-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Account administrator" means any of the following:

(a)  a depository institution as defined in Section 7-1-103;

(b)  a trust company as defined in Section 7-1-103;

(c)  an insurance company authorized to do business in this state under this title;

(d)  a third party administrator licensed under Section 31A-25-203; and

(e)  an employer if the employer has a self-insured health plan under ERISA.

(2)  "Account holder" means the resident individual who establishes a medical care savings account or for whose benefit a medical care savings account is established.

(3)  "Deductible" means the total deductible for an employee and all the dependents of that employee for a calendar year.

(4)  "Dependent" means the same as "dependent" under Section 31A-30-103.

(5)  "Eligible medical expense" means an expense paid by the taxpayer for:

(a)  medical care described in Section 213(d), Internal Revenue Code;

(b)  the purchase of a health coverage policy, certificate, or contract, including a qualified higher deductible health plan; or

(c)  premiums on long-term care insurance policies as defined in Section 31A-1-301.

(6)  "Employee" means the individual for whose benefit or for the benefit of whose dependents a medical care savings account is established.  Employee includes a self-employed individual.

(7)  "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, Public Law 93-406, 88 Stat. 829.

(8)  "Higher deductible" means a deductible of not less than $1,000.

(9)  "Medical care savings account" or "account" means a trust account established at a depository institution in this state pursuant to a medical care savings account program to pay the eligible medical expenses of:

(a)  an employee or account holder; and

(b)  the dependents of the employee or account holder.

(10)  "Medical care savings account program" or "program" means one of the following programs:

(a)  a program established by an employer in which the employer:

(i)  purchases a qualified higher deductible health plan for the benefit of an employee and the employee's dependents; and

(ii) contributes on behalf of an employee into a medical care savings account; or

(b)  a program established by an account holder in which the account holder:

(i)  purchases a qualified higher deductible health plan for the benefit of the account holder and the account holder's dependents; and

(ii)  contributes an amount to the medical care savings account.

(11)  "Qualified higher deductible health plan" means a health coverage policy, certificate, or contract that:

(a)  provides for payments for covered benefits that exceed the higher deductible; and

(b)  is purchased by:

(i)  an employer for the benefit of an employee for whom the employer makes deposits into a medical care savings account; or

(ii)  an account holder.



Amended by Chapter 116, 2001 General Session

