59-12-120.   Investment incentive to ski resorts for lease or purchase of
certain equipment -- Ski Resort Capital Investment Restricted Account created
-- Conditions and restrictions on receiving incentive -- State Tax Commission
to administer.
(1)  Any person operating a ski resort in the state of Utah shall be entitled
to an investment incentive in an amount not to exceed the costs incurred in
the purchase or lease of:
(a)  snow making equipment;
(b)  ski slope grooming equipment; and
(c)  passenger ropeways as defined in Section 72-11-102.
(2)  The investment incentive allowed in Subsection (1) shall be paid from the
Ski Resort Capital Investment Restricted Account created in Subsection (5).
The investment incentive shall be allowed only to the extent that for each
dollar of investment incentive allowed, three dollars shall be expended for
the purchase or lease of property described in Subsection (1) by a person
operating a ski resort.  The investment incentive paid out of the account
shall be allocated among ski resorts based on the relation between the total
sales tax collected from the sale of ski lift tickets in Utah to the total
sales tax collected from the sale of ski lift tickets in Utah by each ski
resort.
(3)  The investment incentive is available to any person operating a ski
resort in the state of Utah making purchases or leases of property described
in Subsection (1) on or after January 1, 1989 and on or before December 31,
1992.  All claims made under this section against the amount in the Ski Resort
Capital Investment Restricted Account shall be made on or before June 30,
1993.
(4)  If a ski resort is sold or leased to an unrelated third party within four
years after the reporting period in which the investment incentive allowed in
Subsection (1) is taken, the person who received the investment incentive
shall reimburse to the Ski Resort Capital Investment Restricted Account an
amount equal to all investment incentives received during the period described
in Subsection (3).  For purposes of this Subsection (4), if a ski resort is
sold in connection with a bankruptcy proceeding, the sale shall be considered
the kind of sale requiring the reimbursement of the investment incentive.
(5)  There is created the Ski Resort Capital Investment Incentive Restricted
Account within the General Fund.  The amount appropriated in this section is
nonlapsing until July 1, 1993.
(6)  The State Tax Commission shall administer this section by rule.
