59-12-205.   Ordinances to conform with statutory amendments -- Distribution
of tax revenues -- Determination of population.
(1)  Each county, city, and town, in order to maintain in effect sales and use
tax ordinances adopted pursuant to Section 59-12-204, shall, within 30 days of
any amendment of any applicable provisions of Part 1, Tax Collection, adopt
amendments of their respective sales and use tax ordinances to conform with
the amendments to Part 1, Tax Collection, insofar as they relate to sales and
use taxes.
(2)  Except as provided in Subsections (3) through (5):
(a)  50% of each dollar collected from the sales and use tax authorized by
this part shall be paid to each county, city, and town on the basis of the
percentage that the population of the county, city, or town bears to the total
population of all counties, cities, and towns in the state; and
(b) (i)  except as provided in Subsection (2)(b)(ii), 50% of each dollar
collected from the sales and use tax authorized by this part shall be paid to
each county, city, and town on the basis of the location where the transaction
is consummated as determined under Sections 59-12-211 through 59-12-215; and
(ii)  50% of each dollar collected from the sales and use tax authorized by
this part within a project area described in a project area plan adopted by
the military installation development authority under Title 63H, Chapter 1,
Military Installation Development Authority Act, shall be paid to the military
installation development authority created in Section 63H-1-201.
(3) (a)  For fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 1983-84 and ending with
fiscal year 2005-06, a county, city, or town may not receive a tax revenue
distribution less than .75% of the taxable sales within the boundaries of the
county, city, or town.
(b)  The commission shall proportionally reduce monthly distributions to any
county, city, or town that, but for the reduction, would receive a
distribution in excess of 1% of the sales and use tax revenue collected within
the boundaries of the county, city, or town.
(4) (a)  As used in this Subsection (4):
(i)  "Eligible county, city, or town" means a county, city, or town that
receives $2,000 or more in tax revenue distributions in accordance with
Subsection (3) for each of the following fiscal years:
(A)  fiscal year 2002-03;
(B)  fiscal year 2003-04; and
(C)  fiscal year 2004-05.
(ii)  "Minimum tax revenue distribution" means the greater of:
(A)  the total amount of tax revenue distributions an eligible county, city,
or town receives from a tax imposed in accordance with this part for fiscal
year 2000-01; or
(B)  the total amount of tax revenue distributions an eligible county, city,
or town receives from a tax imposed in accordance with this part for fiscal
year 2004-05.
(b) (i)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2) and except as provided in Subsection
(4)(b)(ii), beginning with fiscal year 2006-07 and ending with fiscal year
2012-13, an eligible county, city, or town shall receive a tax revenue
distribution for a tax imposed in accordance with this part equal to the
greater of:
(A)  the payment required by Subsection (2); or
(B)  the minimum tax revenue distribution.
(ii)  If the tax revenue distribution required by Subsection (4)(b)(i) for an
eligible county, city, or town is equal to the amount described in Subsection
(4)(b)(i)(A) for three consecutive fiscal years, for fiscal years beginning
with the fiscal year immediately following that three consecutive fiscal year
period, the eligible county, city, or town shall receive the tax revenue
distribution equal to the payment required by Subsection (2).
(c)  For a fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2013-14 and ending with
fiscal year 2015-16, an eligible county, city, or town shall receive the
minimum tax revenue distribution for that fiscal year if for fiscal year
2012-13 the payment required by Subsection (2) to that eligible county, city,
or town is less than or equal to the product of:
(i)  the minimum tax revenue distribution; and
(ii)  .90.
(5) (a)  Population figures for purposes of this section shall be based on the
most recent official census or census estimate of the United States Census
Bureau.
(b)  If a needed population estimate is not available from the United States
Census Bureau, population figures shall be derived from the estimate from the
Utah Population Estimates Committee created by executive order of the
governor.
(6)  The population of a county for purposes of this section shall be
determined solely from the unincorporated area of the county.
