59-12-209.   Participation of counties, cities, and towns in administration and enforcement of certain local sales and use taxes -- Petition for reconsideration relating to the redistribution of certain sales and use tax revenues.

(1)  Notwithstanding Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, a county, city, or town does not have the right to any of the following, except as specifically allowed by Subsection (2) and Section 59-12-210:

(a)  to inspect, review, or have access to any taxpayer sales and use tax records; or

(b)  to be informed of, participate in, intervene in, or appeal from any adjudicative proceeding commenced pursuant to Section 63G-4-201 to determine the liability of any taxpayer for sales and use taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter.

(2) (a)  Counties, cities, and towns shall have access to records and information on file with the commission, and shall have the right to notice of, and rights to intervene in or to appeal from, a proposed final agency action of the commission as provided in this Subsection (2).

(b)  If the commission, following a formal adjudicative proceeding commenced pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, proposes to take final agency action that would reduce the amount of sales and use tax liability alleged in the notice of deficiency, the commission shall provide notice of a proposed agency action to each qualified county, city, and town.

(c)  For purposes of this Subsection (2), a county, city, or town is a qualified county, city, or town if a proposed final agency action reduces a tax under this chapter distributable to that county, city, or town by more than $10,000 below the amount of the tax that would have been distributable to that county, city, or town had a notice of deficiency, as described in Section 59-1-1405, not been reduced.

(d)  A qualified county, city, or town may designate a representative who shall have the right to review the record of the formal hearing and any other commission records relating to a proposed final agency action subject to the confidentiality provisions of Section 59-1-403.

(e)  No later than 10 days after receiving the notice of the commission's proposed final agency action, a qualified county, city, or town may file a notice of intervention with the commission.

(f)  No later than 20 days after filing a notice of intervention, if a qualified county, city, or town objects to the proposed final agency action, that qualified county, city, or town may file a petition for reconsideration with the commission and shall serve copies of the petition on the taxpayer and the appropriate division in the commission.

(g)  The taxpayer and appropriate division in the commission may each file a response to the petition for reconsideration within 20 days of receipt of the petition for reconsideration.

(h) (i)  After consideration of the petition for reconsideration and any response, and any additional proceeding the commission considers appropriate, the commission may affirm, modify, or amend its proposed final agency action. 

(ii)  A taxpayer and any qualified county, city, or town that has filed a petition for reconsideration may appeal the final agency action.

(i) (i)  Notwithstanding Subsections (2)(a) through (h) and subject to Subsection (2)(i)(ii), the following may file a petition for reconsideration with the commission:

(A)  an original recipient political subdivision as defined in Section 59-12-210.1 that receives a notice from the commission in accordance with Subsection 59-12-210.1(2); or

(B)  a secondary recipient political subdivision as defined in Section 59-12-210.1 that receives a notice from the commission in accordance with Subsection 59-12-210.1(2).

(ii)  An original recipient political subdivision or secondary recipient political subdivision that files a petition for reconsideration with the commission under Subsection (2)(i)(i) shall file the petition no later than 20 days after the later of:

(A)  the date the original recipient political subdivision or secondary recipient political subdivision receives the notice described in Subsection (2)(i)(i) from the commission; or

(B)  the date the commission makes the redistribution as defined in Section 59-12-210.1 that is the subject of the notice described in Subsection (2)(i)(i).



Amended by Chapter 212, 2009 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 240, 2009 General Session

