59-12-215.   Location of transaction involving telecommunications service or
other related service.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Air-to-ground radiotelephone service" means a radio service:
(i)  as defined in 47 C.F.R. Sec. 22.99; and
(ii)  for which a common carrier is authorized to offer and provide radio
telecommunications service:
(A)  for hire; and
(B)  to a subscriber in an aircraft.
(b)  "Call-by-call basis" means a method of charging for telecommunications
service that is measured by individual calls.
(c)  "Communications channel" means a physical or virtual path of
communications over which a signal is transmitted between or among customer
channel termination points.
(d) (i)  Subject to Subsection (1)(d)(ii), "customer" means:
(A)  a person that is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications
service provider to pay for telecommunications service received under the
contract; or
(B)  if the end user is not the person described in Subsection (1)(d)(i)(A),
the end user of telecommunications service.
(ii)  "Customer" does not include a reseller:
(A)  of telecommunications service; or
(B)  for mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve a customer outside the home service provider’s licensed
service area.
(e)  "Customer channel termination point" means the location where a customer:
(i)  inputs communications; or
(ii)  receives communications.
(f)  "End user" means:
(i)  an individual who uses a telecommunications service; or
(ii)  for a telecommunications service provided to a person who is not an
individual, an individual who uses a telecommunications service on behalf of
the person who is provided the telecommunications service.
(g)  "Home service provider" is as defined in the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act, 4 U.S.C. Sec. 124.
(h)  "Service address" means:
(i)  regardless of where a call is billed or paid, the location of the
telecommunications equipment:
(A)  to which a customer's call is charged; and
(B)  from which the call:
(I)  originates; or
(II)  terminates;
(ii)  if the location described in Subsection (1)(h)(i) is not known, the
location of the origination point of the signal of the telecommunications
service first identified by:
(A)  the telecommunications system of the telecommunications service provider;
or
(B)  if the system used to transport the signal of the telecommunications
service is not a system of the telecommunications service provider,
information received by the telecommunications service provider from the
telecommunications service provider's telecommunications service provider; or
(iii)  if the locations described in Subsections (1)(h)(i) and (ii) are not
known, the location of a customer’s place of primary use.
(2)  Except as provided in Subsection (4), the location of a sale of a
telecommunications service sold on a call-by-call basis is:
(a)  the location at which the call originates and terminates; or
(b)  the location at which:
(i)  the call:
(A)  originates; or
(B)  terminates; and
(ii)  the service address is located.
(3)  Except as provided in Subsection (4), the location of a sale of a
telecommunications service sold on a basis other than a call-by-call basis is
the customer’s place of primary use.
(4)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2) or (3):
(a)  the location of a sale of a mobile telecommunications service, other than
an air-to-ground radiotelephone service or a prepaid calling service, is the
location required by the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act, 4 U.S.C. Sec.
116 et seq.;
(b)  the location of a sale of a postpaid calling service is the origination
point of the telecommunications signal as first identified by:
(i)  the seller’s telecommunications system; or
(ii)  if the system used to transport the telecommunications signal is not
that of the seller, information received by the seller from the seller's
telephone service provider;
(c)  the location of a sale of a prepaid calling service is the location
determined under Section 59-12-211; and
(d) (i)  subject to Subsection (4)(d)(ii), the location of a sale of a prepaid
wireless calling service is the location determined under Section 59-12-211;
and
(ii)  for purposes of Subsection (4)(d)(i), the location of a transaction
determined under Subsection 59-12-211(6) is considered to include the location
associated with the mobile telephone number.
(5)  The location of a sale of a private communication service is:
(a)  if all of the customer channel termination points are located entirely
within one county, city, or town, the location of the sale is the county,
city, or town in which all of the customer channel termination points are
located;
(b)  if a charge for a service related to a customer channel termination point
is separately stated, the location of the sale is the location in which the
customer channel termination point is located;
(c)  if a charge for service for a segment of a channel between two customer
channel termination points located in different counties, cities, or towns is
separately stated, the location of the sale is each county, city, or town:
(i)  in which the customer channel termination points are located; and
(ii)  in equal proportions; and
(d)  if a charge for service for a segment of a channel located in more than
one county, city, or town is not separately stated, the location of the sale
is:
(i)  each county, city, or town in which a segment of the channel is located;
and
(ii)  in proportion to the percentage of customer channel termination points
in each county, city, or town compared to the total customer channel
termination points in all counties, cities, and towns.
(6)  The location of a sale of Internet access service is the customer's place
of primary use.
(7)  The location of a sale of an ancillary service is the customer's place of
primary use.
