59-12-501.   Public transit tax -- Base -- Rate -- Voter approval.
(1) (a) (i)  In addition to other sales and use taxes, any county, city, or
town may impose a sales and use tax of up to:
(A) for a county, city, or town other than a county, city, or town described
in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B), .25% on the transactions described in Subsection
59-12-103(1) located within the county, city, or town, to fund a public
transportation system; or
(B)  beginning on January 1, 2008, for a county, city, or town within which a
tax is not imposed under Part 15, County Option Sales and Use Tax for
Highways, Fixed Guideways, or Systems for Public Transit Act, .30% on the
transactions described in Subsection 59-12-103(1) located within the county,
city, or town, to fund a public transportation system.
(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a)(i), a county, city, or town may not
impose a tax under this section on:
(A)  the sales and uses described in Section 59-12-104 to the extent the sales
and uses are exempt from taxation under Section 59-12-104; and
(B)  except as provided in Subsection (1)(c), amounts paid or charged for food
and food ingredients.
(b)  For purposes of this Subsection (1), the location of a transaction shall
be determined in accordance with Sections 59-12-211 through 59-12-215.
(c)  A county, city, or town imposing a tax under this section shall impose
the tax on amounts paid or charged for food and food ingredients if the food
and food ingredients are sold as part of a bundled transaction attributable to
food and food ingredients and tangible personal property other than food and
food ingredients.
(d)  Except as provided in Subsection (3) or (4), a county, city, or town may
impose a tax under this section only if the governing body of the county,
city, or town, by resolution, submits the proposal to all the qualified voters
within the county, city, or town for approval at a general or special election
conducted in the manner provided by statute.
(2) (a)  Notice of any such election shall be given by the county, city, or
town governing body 15 days in advance in the manner prescribed by statute.
(b)  If a majority of the voters voting in such election approve the proposal,
it shall become effective on the date provided by the county, city, or town
governing body.
(3)  This section may not be construed to require an election in jurisdictions
where voters have previously approved a public transit sales or use tax.
(4)  A county, city, or town is not subject to the voter approval requirements
of this section if:
(a)  on December 31, 2007, the county, city, or town imposes a tax of .25%
under this section; and
(b)  on or after January 1, 2008, subject to Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B), the
county, city, or town increases the tax rate under this section to up to .30%.
