59-12-502.   Additional public transit tax for a fixed guideway, expanded
public transportation system, airport facility, or to be deposited into the
County of the First Class State Highway Projects Fund -- Base -- Rate -- Voter
approval -- Exception to voter approval requirement.
(1) (a) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (5) and in addition to other
sales and use taxes, including the public transit district tax authorized by
Section 59-12-501, a county, city, or town may impose a sales and use tax of
.25% on the transactions described in Subsection 59-12-103(1) located within
the county, city, or town, to be expended:
(A)  to fund a fixed guideway;
(B)  to fund an expanded public transportation system;
(C)  to fund a project or service related to an airport facility as defined in
Section 59-12-602 for the portion of the project or service that is performed
within the county, city, or town within which the tax is imposed:
(I)  for a county that imposes the sales and use tax, if the airport facility
is part of the regional transportation plan of the area metropolitan planning
organization if a metropolitan planning organization exists for the area; or
(II)  for a city or town that imposes the sales and use tax, if:
(Aa)  that city or town is located within a county of the second class;
(Bb)  that city or town owns or operates the airport facility; and
(Cc)  an airline as defined in Section 59-2-102 is headquartered in that city
or town; or
(D)  for a combination of Subsections (1)(a)(i)(A) through (C).
(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a)(i), a county, city, or town may not
impose a tax under this section on:
(A)  the sales and uses described in Section 59-12-104 to the extent the sales
and uses are exempt from taxation under Section 59-12-104; and
(B)  except as provided in Subsection (1)(c), amounts paid or charged for food
and food ingredients.
(b)  For purposes of this Subsection (1), the location of a transaction shall
be determined in accordance with Sections 59-12-211 through 59-12-215.
(c)  A county, city, or town imposing a tax under this section shall impose
the tax on amounts paid or charged for food and food ingredients if the food
and food ingredients are sold as part of a bundled transaction attributable to
food and food ingredients and tangible personal property other than food and
food ingredients.
(d) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (3), a county, city, or town may
impose the tax under this section only if the governing body of the county,
city, or town submits, by resolution, the proposal to all the qualified voters
within the county, city, or town for approval at a general or special election
conducted in the manner provided by statute.
(ii)  Notice of the election under Subsection (1)(d)(i) shall be given by the
county, city, or town governing body 15 days in advance in the manner
prescribed by statute.
(2)  Except as provided in Subsection (3), if the majority of the voters
voting in this election approve the proposal, it shall become effective on the
date provided by the county, city, or town governing body.
(3) (a)  A county, city, or town is not required to submit a proposal to
voters to impose a tax under this section if:
(i)  the county, city, or town imposes the tax under this section on or after
July 1, 2009;
(ii)  on July 1, 2009, the county, city, or town imposes a tax under:
(A)  Section 59-12-501; or
(B)  Section 59-12-1001; and
(iii)  the county, city, or town obtained voter approval to impose the tax
under:
(A)  Section 59-12-501; or
(B)  Section 59-12-1001.
(b)  A county, city, or town that is not required to submit a proposal to
voters to impose a tax under this section in accordance with Subsection (3)(a)
shall obtain approval from a majority of the members of the county, city, or
town legislative body to impose a tax under this section.
(4)  Public funds may not be spent to promote the required election.
(5)  Of the revenues generated by the tax imposed under this section by any
county of the first class:
(a)  80% shall be allocated to fund a fixed guideway and expanded public
transportation system; and
(b)  20% shall be deposited into the County of the First Class State Highway
Projects Fund created by Section 72-2-121.
