59-12-801.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Emergency medical services" is as defined in Section 26-8a-102.
(2)  "Federally qualified health center" is as defined in 42 U.S.C. Sec.
1395x.
(3)  "Freestanding urgent care center" means a facility that provides
outpatient health care service:
(a)  on an as-needed basis, without an appointment;
(b)  to the public;
(c)  for the diagnosis and treatment of a medical condition if that medical
condition does not require hospitalization or emergency intervention for a
life threatening or potentially permanently disabling condition; and
(d)  including one or more of the following services:
(i)  a medical history physical examination;
(ii)  an assessment of health status; or
(iii)  treatment:
(A)  for a variety of medical conditions; and
(B)  that is commonly offered in a physician's office.
(4)  "Nursing care facility" is as defined in Section 26-21-2.
(5)  "Rural city hospital" means a hospital owned by a city that is located
within a third, fourth, fifth, or sixth class county.
(6)  "Rural county health care facility" means a:
(a)  rural county hospital; or
(b)   rural county nursing care facility.
(7)  "Rural county hospital" means a hospital owned by a county that is:
(a)  a third, fourth, fifth, or sixth class county, as defined in Section
17-50-501; and
(b)  located outside of a standard metropolitan statistical area, as
designated by the United States Bureau of the Census.
(8)  "Rural county nursing care facility" means a nursing care facility owned
by a county that is:
(a)  a third, fourth, fifth, or sixth class county, as defined in Section
17-50-501; and
(b)  located outside of a standard metropolitan statistical area, as
designated by the United States Census Bureau.
(9)  "Rural emergency medical services" means emergency medical services that
are provided by a county that is:
(a)  a third, fourth, fifth, or sixth class county, as defined in Section
17-50-501; and
(b)  located outside of a standard metropolitan statistical area, as
designated by the United States Census Bureau.
(10)  "Rural health clinic" is as defined in 42 U.S.C. Sec. 1395x.
