59-12-802.   Imposition of rural county health care facilities tax --
Expenditure of tax revenues -- Base -- Rate -- Administration, collection, and
enforcement of tax.
(1) (a)  A county legislative body of a county of the third, fourth, fifth, or
sixth class may impose a sales and use tax of up to 1%:
(i) on the transactions described in Subsection 59-12-103(1) located within
the county; and
(ii)  subject to Subsection (3), to fund:
(A)  for a county of the third, fourth, or fifth class, rural county health
care facilities in that county; or
(B)  for a county of the sixth class:
(I)  emergency medical services in that county;
(II)  federally qualified health centers in that county;
(III)  freestanding urgent care centers in that county;
(IV)  rural county health care facilities in that county;
(V)  rural health clinics in that county; or
(VI)  a combination of Subsections (1)(a)(ii)(B)(I) through (V).
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a)(i), a county legislative body may not
impose a tax under this section on:
(i)  the sales and uses described in Section 59-12-104 to the extent the sales
and uses are exempt from taxation under Section 59-12-104;
(ii)  a transaction to the extent a rural city hospital tax is imposed on that
transaction in a city that imposes a tax under Section 59-12-804; and
(iii)  except as provided in Subsection (1)(d), amounts paid or charged for
food and food ingredients.
(c)  For purposes of this Subsection (1), the location of a transaction shall
be determined in accordance with Sections 59-12-211 through 59-12-215.
(d)  A county legislative body imposing a tax under this section shall impose
the tax on amounts paid or charged for food and food ingredients if the food
and food ingredients are sold as part of a bundled transaction attributable to
food and food ingredients and tangible personal property other than food and
food ingredients.
(2) (a)  Before imposing a tax under Subsection (1)(a), a county legislative
body shall obtain approval to impose the tax from a majority of the:
(i)  members of the county's legislative body; and
(ii)  county's registered voters voting on the imposition of the tax.
(b)  The county legislative body shall conduct the election according to the
procedures and requirements of Title 11, Chapter 14, Local Government Bonding
Act.
(3) (a)  The monies generated by a tax imposed under Subsection (1) by a
county legislative body of a county of the third, fourth, or fifth class may
only be used for the financing of:
(i)  ongoing operating expenses of a rural county health care facility within
that county;
(ii)  the acquisition of land for a rural county health care facility within
that county; or
(iii)  the design, construction, equipping, or furnishing of a rural county
health care facility within that county.
(b)  The monies generated by a tax imposed under Subsection (1) by a county of
the sixth class may only be used for the financing of:
(i)  ongoing operating expenses of a center, clinic, or facility described in
Subsection (1)(a)(ii)(B) within that county;
(ii)  the acquisition of land for a center, clinic, or facility described in
Subsection (1)(a)(ii)(B) within that county;
(iii)  the design, construction, equipping, or furnishing of a center, clinic,
or facility described in Subsection (1)(a)(ii)(B) within that county; or
(iv)  the provision of rural emergency medical services within that county.
(4) (a)  A tax under this section shall be:
(i)  except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), administered, collected, and
enforced in accordance with:
(A)  the same procedures used to administer, collect, and enforce the tax
under:
(I)  Part 1, Tax Collection; or
(II)  Part 2, Local Sales and Use Tax Act; and
(B)  Chapter 1, General Taxation Policies; and
(ii)  levied for a period of 10 years and may be reauthorized at the end of
the ten-year period by the county legislative body as provided in Subsection
(1).
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(a)(i), a tax under this section is not
subject to Subsections 59-12-205(2) through (6).
(5)  The commission may retain an amount not to exceed 1-1/2% of the tax
collected under this section for the cost of administering this tax.
