59-12-804.   Imposition of rural city hospital tax -- Base -- Rate --
Administration, collection, and enforcement of tax.
(1) (a)  A city legislative body may impose a sales and use tax of up to 1%:
(i)  on the transactions described in Subsection 59-12-103(1) located within
the city; and
(ii)  to fund rural city hospitals in that city.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a)(i), a city legislative body may not
impose a tax under this section on:
(i)  the sales and uses described in Section 59-12-104 to the extent the sales
and uses are exempt from taxation under Section 59-12-104; and
(ii)  except as provided in Subsection (1)(d), amounts paid or charged for
food and food ingredients.
(c)  For purposes of this Subsection (1), the location of a transaction shall
be determined in accordance with Sections 59-12-211 through 59-12-215.
(d)  A city legislative body imposing a tax under this section shall impose
the tax on amounts paid or charged for food and food ingredients if the food
and food ingredients are sold as part of a bundled transaction attributable to
food and food ingredients and tangible personal property other than food and
food ingredients.
(2) (a)  Before imposing a tax under Subsection (1)(a), a city legislative
body shall obtain approval to impose the tax from a majority of the:
(i)  members of the city legislative body; and
(ii)  city's registered voters voting on the imposition of the tax.
(b)  The city legislative body shall conduct the election according to the
procedures and requirements of Title 11, Chapter 14, Local Government Bonding
Act.
(3)  The monies generated by a tax imposed under Subsection (1) may only be
used for the financing of:
(a)  ongoing operating expenses of a rural city hospital;
(b)  the acquisition of land for a rural city hospital; or
(c)  the design, construction, equipping, or furnishing of a rural city
hospital.
(4) (a)  A tax under this section shall be:
(i)  except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), administered, collected, and
enforced in accordance with:
(A)  the same procedures used to administer, collect, and enforce the tax
under:
(I)  Part 1, Tax Collection; or
(II)  Part 2, Local Sales and Use Tax Act; and
(B)  Chapter 1, General Taxation Policies; and
(ii)  levied for a period of 10 years and may be reauthorized at the end of
the ten-year period by the city legislative body as provided in Subsection
(1).
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(a)(i), a tax under this section is not
subject to Subsections 59-12-205(2) through (6).
(5)  The commission may retain an amount not to exceed 1-1/2% of the tax
collected under this section for the cost of administering the tax.
