59-12-1001.    Authority to impose tax for highways or to fund a system for
public transit -- Base -- Rate -- Ordinance requirements -- Voter approval
requirements -- Election requirements -- Notice of election requirements --
Exceptions to voter approval requirements -- Enactment or repeal of tax --
Effective date -- Notice requirements.
(1) (a)  A city or town in which the transactions described in Subsection
59-12-103(1) are not subject to a sales and use tax under Section 59-12-501
may as provided in this part impose a sales and use tax of:
(i)  beginning on January 1, 1998, and ending on December 31, 2007, .25% on
the transactions described in Subsection 59-12-103(1) located within the city
or town; or
(ii)  beginning on January 1, 2008, .30% on the transactions described in
Subsection 59-12-103(1) located within the city or town.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a), a city or town may not impose a tax
under this section on:
(i)  the sales and uses described in Section 59-12-104 to the extent the sales
and uses are exempt from taxation under Section 59-12-104; and
(ii)  except as provided in Subsection (1)(d), amounts paid or charged for
food and food ingredients.
(c)  For purposes of this Subsection (1), the location of a transaction shall
be determined in accordance with Sections 59-12-211 through 59-12-215.
(d)  A city or town imposing a tax under this section shall impose the tax on
amounts paid or charged for food and food ingredients if the food and food
ingredients are sold as part of a bundled transaction attributable to food and
food ingredients and tangible personal property other than food and food
ingredients.
(2) (a)  A city or town imposing a tax under this part may use the revenues
generated by the tax:
(i)  for the construction and maintenance of highways under the jurisdiction
of the city or town imposing the tax;
(ii)  subject to Subsection (2)(b), to fund a system for public transit; or
(iii)  for a combination of the purposes described in Subsections (2)(a)(i)
and (ii).
(b) (i)  For purposes of Subsection (2)(a)(ii) and except as provided in
Subsection (2)(b)(ii), "public transit" is as defined in Section 17B-2a-802.
(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(b)(i), "public transit" does not include
a fixed guideway system.
(3)  To impose a tax under this part, the governing body of the city or town
shall:
(a)  pass an ordinance approving the tax; and
(b)  except as provided in Subsection (7) or (8), obtain voter approval for
the tax as provided in Subsection (4).
(4)  To obtain voter approval for a tax under Subsection (3)(b), a city or
town shall:
(a)  hold an election during:
(i)  a regular general election; or
(ii)  a municipal general election; and
(b)  publish notice of the election:
(i)  15 days or more before the day on which the election is held; and
(ii) (A)  in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or town; and
(B)  as required in Section 45-1-101.
(5)  An ordinance approving a tax under this part shall provide an effective
date for the tax as provided in Subsection (6).
(6) (a)  For purposes of this Subsection (6):
(i)  "Annexation" means an annexation to a city or town under Title 10,
Chapter 2, Part 4, Annexation.
(ii)  "Annexing area" means an area that is annexed into a city or town.
(b) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (6)(c) or (d), if, on or after April
1, 2008, a city or town enacts or repeals a tax under this part, the enactment
or repeal shall take effect:
(A)  on the first day of a calendar quarter; and
(B)  after a 90-day period beginning on the date the commission receives
notice meeting the requirements of Subsection (6)(b)(ii) from the city or
town.
(ii)  The notice described in Subsection (6)(b)(i)(B) shall state:
(A)  that the city or town will enact or repeal a tax under this part;
(B)  the statutory authority for the tax described in Subsection
(6)(b)(ii)(A);
(C)  the effective date of the tax described in Subsection (6)(b)(ii)(A); and
(D)  if the city or town enacts the tax described in Subsection (6)(b)(ii)(A),
the rate of the tax.
(c) (i)  The enactment of a tax shall take effect on the first day of the
first billing period:
(A)  that begins after the effective date of the enactment of the tax; and
(B)  if the billing period for the transaction begins before the effective
date of the enactment of the tax under Subsection (1).
(ii)  The repeal of a tax shall take effect on the first day of the last
billing period:
(A)  that began before the effective date of the repeal of the tax; and
(B)  if the billing period for the transaction begins before the effective
date of the repeal of the tax imposed under Subsection (1).
(d) (i)  If a tax due under this chapter on a catalogue sale is computed on
the basis of sales and use tax rates published in the catalogue, an enactment
or repeal of a tax described in Subsection (6)(b)(i) takes effect:
(A)  on the first day of a calendar quarter; and
(B)  beginning 60 days after the effective date of the enactment or repeal
under Subsection (6)(b)(i).
(ii)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the commission may by rule define the term "catalogue sale."
(e) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (6)(f) or (g), if, for an annexation
that occurs on or after July 1, 2004, the annexation will result in the
enactment or repeal of a tax under this part for an annexing area, the
enactment or repeal shall take effect:
(A)  on the first day of a calendar quarter; and
(B)  after a 90-day period beginning on the date the commission receives
notice meeting the requirements of Subsection (6)(e)(ii) from the city or town
that annexes the annexing area.
(ii)  The notice described in Subsection (6)(e)(i)(B) shall state:
(A)  that the annexation described in Subsection (6)(e)(i) will result in an
enactment or repeal of a tax under this part for the annexing area;
(B)  the statutory authority for the tax described in Subsection
(6)(e)(ii)(A);
(C)  the effective date of the tax described in Subsection (6)(e)(ii)(A); and
(D)  the rate of the tax described in Subsection (6)(e)(ii)(A).
(f) (i)  The enactment of a tax shall take effect on the first day of the
first billing period:
(A)  that begins after the effective date of the enactment of the tax; and
(B)  if the billing period for the transaction begins before the effective
date of the enactment of the tax under Subsection (1).
(ii)  The repeal of a tax shall take effect on the first day of the last
billing period:
(A)  that began before the effective date of the repeal of the tax; and
(B)  if the billing period for the transaction begins before the effective
date of the repeal of the tax imposed under Subsection (1).
(g) (i)  If a tax due under this chapter on a catalogue sale is computed on
the basis of sales and use tax rates published in the catalogue, an enactment
or repeal of a tax described in Subsection (6)(e)(i) takes effect:
(A)  on the first day of a calendar quarter; and
(B)  beginning 60 days after the effective date of the enactment or repeal
under Subsection (6)(e)(i).
(ii)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the commission may by rule define the term "catalogue sale."
(7) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(b), a city or town is not
subject to the voter approval requirements of Subsection (3)(b) if:
(i)  on or before January 1, 1996, the city or town imposed a license fee or
tax on businesses based on gross receipts pursuant to Section 10-1-203; or
(ii)  the city or town:
(A)  on or before June 30, 2002, obtained voter approval in accordance with
Subsection (3)(b) to impose a tax under this part for a purpose described in
Subsection (2)(a)(i); and
(B)  on or after July 1, 2002, uses the revenues generated by a tax under this
part for a purpose described in Subsection (2)(a).
(b)  The exception from the voter approval requirements in Subsection
(7)(a)(i) does not apply to a city or town that, on or before January 1, 1996,
imposed a license fee or tax on only one class of businesses based on gross
receipts pursuant to Section 10-1-203.
(8)  A city or town is not subject to the voter approval requirements of
Subsection (3)(b) if:
(a)  on December 31, 2007, the city or town imposes a tax of .25% under this
section; and
(b)  on or after January 1, 2008, the city or town increases the tax rate
under this section to .30%.
