59-12-1201.   Motor vehicle rental tax -- Rate -- Exemptions --
Administration, collection, and enforcement of tax -- Administrative fee --
Deposits.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3), there is imposed a tax of 2.5%
on all short-term leases and rentals of motor vehicles not exceeding 30 days.
(b)  The tax imposed in this section is in addition to all other state,
county, or municipal fees and taxes imposed on rentals of motor vehicles.
(2) (a)  Subject to Subsection (2)(b), a tax rate repeal or tax rate change
for the tax imposed under Subsection (1) shall take effect on the first day of
a calendar quarter.
(b) (i)  For a transaction subject to a tax under Subsection (1), a tax rate
increase shall take effect on the first day of the first billing period:
(A)  that begins after the effective date of the tax rate increase; and
(B)  if the billing period for the transaction begins before the effective
date of a tax rate increase imposed under Subsection (1).
(ii)  For a transaction subject to a tax under Subsection (1), the repeal of a
tax or a tax rate decrease shall take effect on the first day of the last
billing period:
(A)  that began before the effective date of the repeal of the tax or the tax
rate decrease; and
(B)  if the billing period for the transaction begins before the effective
date of the repeal of the tax or the tax rate decrease imposed under
Subsection (1).
(3)  A motor vehicle is exempt from the tax imposed under Subsection (1) if:
(a)  the motor vehicle is registered for a gross laden weight of 12,001 or
more pounds;
(b)  the motor vehicle is rented as a personal household goods moving van; or
(c)  the lease or rental of the motor vehicle is made for the purpose of
temporarily replacing a person's motor vehicle that is being repaired pursuant
to a repair agreement or an insurance agreement.
(4) (a) (i)  The tax authorized under this section shall be administered,
collected, and enforced in accordance with:
(A)  the same procedures used to administer, collect, and enforce the tax
under Part 1, Tax Collection; and
(B)  Chapter 1, General Taxation Policies.
(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(a)(i), a tax under this part is not
subject to Subsections 59-12-103(4) through (12) or Section 59-12-107.1 or
59-12-123.
(b)  The commission may retain a maximum of 1-1/2% of the tax collected under
this section for the costs of rendering its services under this section.
(c)  Except as provided under Subsection (4)(b), all revenue received by the
commission under this section shall be deposited daily with the state
treasurer and credited monthly to the Transportation Corridor Preservation
Revolving Loan Fund under Section 72-2-117.
