59-12-2103.   Imposition of tax -- Base -- Rate -- Expenditure of revenues collected from the tax -- Administration, collection, and enforcement of tax by commission -- Administrative charge -- Enactment or repeal of tax -- Annexation -- Notice.

(1) (a)  Subject to the other provisions of this section and except as provided in Subsection (2) or (3), beginning on January 1, 2009 and ending on June 30, 2016, if a city or town receives a distribution for the 12 consecutive months of fiscal year 2005-06 because the city or town would have received a tax revenue distribution of less than .75% of the taxable sales within the boundaries of the city or town but for Subsection 59-12-205(4)(a), the city or town legislative body may impose a sales and use tax of up to .20% on the transactions:

(i)  described in Subsection 59-12-103(1); and

(ii)  within the city or town.

(b)  A city or town legislative body that imposes a tax under Subsection (1)(a) shall expend the revenues collected from the tax for the same purposes for which the city or town may expend the city's or town's general fund revenues.

(c)  For purposes of this Subsection (1), the location of a transaction shall be determined in accordance with Sections 59-12-211 through 59-12-215.

(2) (a)  A city or town legislative body may not impose a tax under this section on:

(i)  the sales and uses described in Section 59-12-104 to the extent the sales and uses are exempt from taxation under Section 59-12-104; and

(ii)  except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), amounts paid or charged for food and food ingredients.

(b)  A city or town legislative body imposing a tax under this section shall impose the tax on amounts paid or charged for food and food ingredients if the food and food ingredients are sold as part of a bundled transaction attributable to food and food ingredients and tangible personal property other than food and food ingredients.

(3) (a)  Beginning on January 1, 2009 and ending on June 30, 2016, to impose a tax under this part, a city or town legislative body shall obtain approval from a majority of the members of the city or town legislative body.

(b)  If, on June 30, 2016, a city or town is not imposing a tax under this part, the city or town legislative body may not impose a tax under this part beginning on or after July 1, 2016.

(c) (i)  If, on June 30, 2016, a city or town imposes a tax under this part, the city or town shall repeal the tax on July 1, 2016, unless, on or after July 1, 2012, but on or before June 30, 2016, the city or town legislative body obtains approval from a majority vote of the members of the city or town legislative body to continue to impose the tax.

(ii)  If a city or town obtains approval under Subsection (3)(c)(i) from a majority vote of the members of the city or town legislative body to continue to impose a tax under this part on or after July 1, 2016, the city or town may impose the tax until no later than June 30, 2030.

(4)  The commission shall transmit revenues collected within a city or town from a tax under this part:

(a)  to the city or town legislative body;

(b)  monthly; and

(c)  by electronic funds transfer.

(5) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b), the commission shall administer, collect, and enforce a tax under this part in accordance with:

(i)  the same procedures used to administer, collect, and enforce the tax under:

(A)  Part 1, Tax Collection; or

(B)  Part 2, Local Sales and Use Tax Act; and

(ii)  Chapter 1, General Taxation Policies.

(b)  A tax under this part is not subject to Subsections 59-12-205(2) through (6).

(6)  The commission shall retain and deposit an administrative charge in accordance with Section 59-1-306 from the revenues the commission collects from a tax under this part.

(7) (a) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(b) or (c), if, on or after January 1, 2009, a city or town enacts or repeals a tax or changes the rate of a tax under this part, the enactment, repeal, or change shall take effect:

(A)  on the first day of a calendar quarter; and

(B)  after a 90-day period beginning on the date the commission receives notice meeting the requirements of Subsection (7)(a)(i) from the city or town.

(ii)  The notice described in Subsection (7)(a)(i)(B) shall state:

(A)  that the city or town will enact or repeal a tax or change the rate of the tax under this part;

(B)  the statutory authority for the tax described in Subsection (7)(a)(ii)(A);

(C)  the effective date of the tax described in Subsection (7)(a)(ii)(A); and

(D)  if the city or town enacts the tax or changes the rate of the tax described in Subsection (7)(a)(ii)(A), the rate of the tax.

(b) (i)  If the billing period for a transaction begins before the enactment of the tax or the tax rate increase under Subsection (1), the enactment of a tax or a tax rate increase takes effect on the first day of the first billing period that begins on or after the effective date of the enactment of the tax or the tax rate increase.

(ii)  If the billing period for a transaction begins before the effective date of the repeal of the tax or the tax rate decrease imposed under Subsection (1), the repeal of a tax or a tax rate decrease applies to a billing period if the billing statement for the billing period is rendered on or after the effective date of the repeal of the tax or the tax rate decrease.

(c) (i)  If a tax due under this part on a catalogue sale is computed on the basis of sales and use tax rates published in the catalogue, an enactment, repeal, or change in the rate of a tax described in Subsection (7)(a)(i) takes effect:

(A)  on the first day of a calendar quarter; and

(B)  beginning 60 days after the effective date of the enactment, repeal, or change in the rate of the tax under Subsection (7)(a)(i).

(ii)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the commission may by rule define the term "catalogue sale."

(d) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(e) or (f), if, for an annexation that occurs on or after January 1, 2009, the annexation will result in the enactment, repeal, or change in the rate of a tax under this part for an annexing area, the enactment, repeal, or change shall take effect:

(A)  on the first day of a calendar quarter; and

(B)  after a 90-day period beginning on the date the commission receives notice meeting the requirements of Subsection (7)(d)(ii) from the city or town that annexes the annexing area.

(ii)  The notice described in Subsection (7)(d)(i)(B) shall state:

(A)  that the annexation described in Subsection (7)(d)(i)(B) will result in the enactment, repeal, or change in the rate of a tax under this part for the annexing area;

(B)  the statutory authority for the tax described in Subsection (7)(d)(ii)(A);

(C)  the effective date of the tax described in Subsection (7)(d)(ii)(A); and

(D)  if the city or town enacts the tax or changes the rate of the tax described in Subsection (7)(d)(ii)(A), the rate of the tax.

(e) (i)  If the billing period for a transaction begins before the effective date of the enactment of the tax or a tax rate increase under Subsection (1), the enactment of a tax or a tax rate increase takes effect on the first day of the first billing period that begins on or after the effective date of the enactment of the tax or the tax rate increase.

(ii)  If the billing period for a transaction begins before the effective date of the repeal of the tax or the tax rate decrease imposed under Subsection (1), the repeal of a tax or a tax rate decrease applies to a billing period if the billing statement for the billing period is rendered on or after the effective date of the repeal of the tax or the tax rate decrease.

(f) (i)  If a tax due under this part on a catalogue sale is computed on the basis of sales and use tax rates published in the catalogue, an enactment, repeal, or change in the rate of a tax described in Subsection (7)(d)(i) takes effect:

(A)  on the first day of a calendar quarter; and

(B)  beginning 60 days after the effective date of the enactment, repeal, or change under Subsection (7)(d)(i).

(ii)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the commission may by rule define the term "catalogue sale".

