53-6-106.   Creation of Peace Officer Standards and Training Council --
Purpose -- Membership -- Quorum -- Meetings -- Compensation.
(1)  There is created the Peace Officer Standards and Training Council.
(2)  The council shall serve as an advisory board to the director of the
division on matters relating to peace officer and dispatcher standards and
training.
(3)  The council includes:
(a)  the attorney general or his designated representative;
(b)  the superintendent of the highway patrol;
(c)  the executive director of the Department of Corrections or his designated
representative; and
(d)  14 additional members appointed by the governor having qualifications,
experience, or education in the field of law enforcement as follows:
(i)  one incumbent mayor;
(ii)  one incumbent county commissioner;
(iii)  three incumbent sheriffs, one of whom is a representative of the Utah
Sheriffs Association, one of whom is from a county having a population of
100,000 or more, and one of whom is from a county having a population of less
than 100,000;
(iv)  three incumbent police chiefs, one of whom is a representative of the
Utah Chiefs of Police Association, one of whom is from a city of the first or
second class, and one of whom is from a city of the third, fourth, or fifth
class or town;
(v)  one officer from the Federal Bureau of Investigation appointed by the
governor upon the recommendation of the agency;
(vi)  a representative of the Utah Peace Officers Association;
(vii)  an educator in the field of public administration, criminal justice, or
related area; and
(viii)  three persons selected at large by the governor.
(4) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (4)(b), the 14 members of the
council shall be appointed by the governor for four-year terms.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (4)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that
approximately half of the council is appointed every two years.
(c)  A member may be reappointed for additional terms.
(d)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term by the governor from the same
category in which the vacancy occurs.
(5)  A member of the council ceases to be a member:
(a)  immediately upon the termination of his holding the office or employment
that was the basis for his eligibility to membership on the council; or
(b)  upon two unexcused absences in one year from regularly scheduled council
meetings.
(6)  The council shall select a chair and vice chair from among its members.
(7)  Ten members of the advisory council constitute a quorum.
(8) (a)  Meetings may be called by the chair, the commissioner, or the
director and shall be called by the chair upon the written request of nine
members.
(b)  Meetings shall be held at the times and places determined by the
director.
(9)  The council shall meet at least two times per year.
(10) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the council at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(11)  Membership on the council does not disqualify any member from holding
any other public office or employment.
