53-6-302.   Applicants for certification examination -- Requirements.
(1)  Before being allowed to take a dispatcher certification examination, each
applicant shall meet the following requirements:
(a)  be a United States citizen;
(b)  be 18 years of age or older at the time of employment as a dispatcher;
(c)  be a high school graduate or have a G.E.D. equivalent;
(d)  have not been convicted of a crime for which the applicant could have
been punished by imprisonment in a federal penitentiary or by imprisonment in
the penitentiary of this or another state;
(e)  have demonstrated good moral character, as determined by a background
investigation; and
(f)  be free of any physical, emotional, or mental condition that might
adversely affect the performance of the applicant's duty as a dispatcher.
(2) (a)  An application for certification shall be accompanied by a criminal
history background check of local, state, and national criminal history files
and a background investigation.
(b)  The costs of the background check and investigation shall be borne by the
applicant or the applicant's employing agency.
(i)  Conviction of any offense not serious enough to be covered under
Subsection (1)(d), involving dishonesty, unlawful sexual conduct, physical
violence, or the unlawful use, sale, or possession for sale of a controlled
substance is an indication that an applicant may not be of good moral
character and may be grounds for denial of certification or refusal to give a
certification examination.
(ii)  An applicant may be allowed to take a certification examination
provisionally, pending completion of any background check or investigation
required by this
Subsection (2)(b).
(3) (a)  Notwithstanding Title 77, Chapter 40, Utah Expungement Act, regarding
expungements, or a similar statute or rule of any other jurisdiction, any
conviction obtained in this state or other jurisdiction, including a
conviction that has been expunged, dismissed, or treated in a similar manner
to either of these procedures, may be considered for purposes of this section.
(b)  Subsection (3)(a) applies to convictions entered both before and after
May 1, 1995.
(4)  Any background check or background investigation performed pursuant to
the requirements of this section shall be to determine eligibility for
admission to training programs or qualification for certification examinations
and may not be used as a replacement for any background investigations that
may be required of an employing agency.
