58-69-601.   Mentally incompetent or incapacitated dentist or dental
hygienist.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Incapacitated person" has the same definition as in Section 75-1-201.
(b)  "Mentally ill" has the same definition as in Section 62A-15-602.
(2)  If a court of competent jurisdiction determines a dentist or dental
hygienist is an incapacitated person or that the dentist or hygienist is
mentally ill and unable to safely engage in the practice of dentistry or
dental hygiene, the director shall immediately suspend the license of the
dentist or dental hygienist upon the entry of the judgment of the court,
without further proceedings under Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative
Procedures Act, regardless of whether an appeal from the court's ruling is
pending.  The director shall promptly notify the dentist or dental hygienist,
in writing, of the suspension.
(3) (a)  If the division and a majority of the board find reasonable cause to
believe a dentist or dental hygienist, who is not determined judicially to be
an incapacitated person or to be mentally ill, is incapable of practicing
dentistry or dental hygiene with reasonable skill regarding the safety of
patients, because of illness, excessive use of drugs or alcohol, or as a
result of any mental or physical condition, the board shall recommend that the
director file a petition with the division, and cause the petition to be
served upon the dentist or dental hygienist with a notice of hearing on the
sole issue of the capacity of the dentist or dental hygienist to competently
and safely engage in the practice of dentistry or dental hygiene.
(b)  The hearing shall be conducted under Section 58-1-109 and Title 63G,
Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, except as provided in Subsection
(4).
(4) (a)  Every dentist or dental hygienist who accepts the privilege of being
licensed under this chapter gives consent to:
(i)  submitting at the dentist or dental hygienist's own expense to an
immediate mental or physical examination when directed in writing by the
division and a majority of the board to do so; and
(ii)  the admissibility of the reports of the examining practitioner's
testimony or examination, and waives all objections on the ground the reports
constitute a privileged communication.
(b)  The examination may be ordered by the division, with the consent of a
majority of the board, only upon a finding of reasonable cause to believe:
(i)  the dentist or dental hygienist is mentally ill or incapacitated or
otherwise unable to practice dentistry or dental hygiene with reasonable skill
and safety; and
(ii)  immediate action by the division and the board is necessary to prevent
harm to the dentist's or dental hygienist's patients or the general public.
(c) (i)  Failure of a dentist or dental hygienist to submit to the examination
ordered under this section is a ground for the division's immediate suspension
of the dentist's or dental hygienist's license by written order of the
director.
(ii)  The division may enter the order of suspension without further
compliance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, unless
the division finds the failure to submit to the examination ordered under this
section was due to circumstances beyond the control of the dentist or dental
hygienist and was not related directly to the illness or incapacity of the
dentist or dental hygienist.
(5) (a)  A dentist or dental hygienist whose license is suspended under
Subsection (2) or (3) has the right to a hearing to appeal the suspension
within ten days after the license is suspended.
(b)  The hearing held under this subsection shall be conducted in accordance
with Sections 58-1-108 and 58-1-109 for the sole purpose of determining if
sufficient basis exists for the continuance of the order of suspension in
order to prevent harm to the dentist's or dental hygienist's patients or the
general public.
(6)  A dentist or dental hygienist whose license is revoked, suspended, or in
any way restricted under this section may request the division and the board
to consider, at reasonable intervals, evidence presented by the dentist or
dental hygienist, under procedures established by division rule, regarding any
change in the dentist's or dental hygienist's condition, to determine whether:
(a)  the dentist or dental hygienist is or is not able to safely and
competently engage in the practice of dentistry or dental hygiene; and
(b)  the dentist or dental hygienist is qualified to have the dentist or
dental hygienist's licensure to practice under this chapter restored
completely or in part.
