53-7-203.   Utah Fire Prevention Board -- Creation -- Members -- Terms --
Selection of chair and officers -- Quorum -- Meetings -- Compensation --
Division's duty to implement board rules.
(1)  There is created within the division the Utah Fire Prevention Board.
(2)  The board shall be nonpartisan and be composed of 10 members appointed by
the governor as follows:
(a)  a city or county official;
(b)  a licensed architect;
(c)  a licensed engineer;
(d)  a member of the Utah State Firemen's Association;
(e)  the state forester;
(f) the commissioner of the Labor Commission or the commissioner's designee;
(g)  a member of the Utah State Fire Chiefs Association;
(h)  a member of the Utah Fire Marshal's Association;
(i)  a building inspector; and
(j)  a citizen appointed at large.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current board
members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(5)  A member whose term has expired may continue to serve until a replacement
is appointed pursuant to Subsection (3).
(6)  The board shall select from its members a chair and other officers as the
board finds necessary.
(7)  A majority of the members of the board is a quorum.
(8)  The board shall hold regular semiannual meetings for the transaction of
its business at a time and place to be fixed by the board and shall hold other
meetings as necessary for proper transaction of business.
(9) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(10)  The division shall implement the rules of the board and perform all
other duties delegated by the board.
