53-7-204.2.   Fire Academy -- Establishment -- Fire Academy Support Account -- Funding.

(1)  In this section:

(a)  "Account" means the Fire Academy Support Account created in Subsection (4).

(b)  "Property insurance premium" means premium paid as consideration for property insurance as defined in Section 31A-1-301.

(2)  The board shall:

(a)  establish a fire academy that:

(i)  provides instruction and training for paid, volunteer, institutional, and industrial firefighters;

(ii)  develops new methods of firefighting and fire prevention;

(iii)  provides training for fire and arson detection and investigation;

(iv)  provides public education programs to promote fire safety;

(v)  provides for certification of firefighters, pump operators, instructors, and officers; and

(vi)  provides facilities for teaching fire-fighting skills;

(b)  establish a cost recovery fee in accordance with Section 63J-1-504 for training commercially employed firefighters; and

(c)  request funding for the academy.

(3)  The board may:

(a)  accept gifts, donations, and grants of property and services on behalf of the fire academy; and

(b)  enter into contractual agreements necessary to facilitate establishment of the school.

(4) (a)  To provide a funding source for the academy and for the general operation of the State Fire Marshal Division, there is created in the General Fund a restricted account known as the Fire Academy Support Account.

(b)  The following revenue shall be deposited in the account to implement this section:

(i)  the percentage specified in Subsection (5) of the annual tax for each year that is levied, assessed, and collected under Title 59, Chapter 9, Taxation of Admitted Insurers, upon property insurance premiums and as applied to fire and allied lines insurance collected by insurance companies within the state;

(ii)  the percentage specified in Subsection (6) of all money assessed and collected upon life insurance premiums within the state;

(iii)  the cost recovery fees established by the board;

(iv)  gifts, donations, and grants of property on behalf of the fire academy;

(v)  appropriations made by the Legislature; and

(vi)  money collected from civil penalties in accordance with Section 53-7-504.

(5)  The percentage of the tax specified in Subsection (4)(b)(i) to be deposited in the account each fiscal year is 25%.

(6)  The percentage of the money specified in Subsection (4)(b)(ii) to be deposited in the account each fiscal year is 5%.

