53-7-302.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Board" means the Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board created in Section 53-7-304.

(2)  "Container" means any vessel, including cylinders, tanks, portable tanks, and cargo tanks used for transporting or storing liquefied petroleum gases, except containers subject to regulation and inspection by the Department of Transportation and under federal laws or regulations.

(3)  "Distributor" means any person engaged in the distribution of liquefied petroleum gas, either wholesale or retail, including a commercial carrier, as identified by the Department of Transportation or the Interstate Commerce Commission, who transports or hauls liquefied petroleum gas that is to be distributed or sold within this state.

(4)  "Enforcing authority" means the division, the municipal or county fire department, another fire-prevention agency acting within its jurisdiction, or the building official of any city or county and his authorized representatives.

(5)  "Gas appliance" means any device that uses liquefied petroleum gas to produce light, heat, power, steam, hot water, refrigeration, or air conditioning.

(6)  "Installer" means any person who has satisfactorily passed an examination under the supervision of the board, testing his knowledge and ability to install or properly repair domestic systems, industrial systems, liquefied petroleum gas carburetion systems, bulk plant systems, standby plant systems, or other similar systems, and who holds an installer's certificate under this part.

(7)  "Licensee" means a person licensed by the board to engage in the liquefied petroleum gas business.

(8)  "Liquefied petroleum gas" means any material having a vapor pressure not exceeding that allowed for commercial propane and composed predominantly of the following hydrocarbons, either by themselves or as mixtures: propane, propylene, butane, normal butane, or isobutane, and butylene, including isomers.

(9)  "Liquefied petroleum gas carburetion system" means any carburetion system using liquefied petroleum gas as a fuel in a motor vehicle.

(10)  "Liquefied petroleum gas fueling system" means an assembly consisting of compressors, containers, piping, and other delivery devices for the purpose of dispensing liquefied petroleum gas for use as a fuel in a motor vehicle.

(11)  "LPG" means liquefied petroleum gas.

(12)  "Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, estate, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, and includes:

(a)  a husband, wife, or both where joint benefits are derived from the operation of a business or activity subject to this part; and

(b)  any state, county, municipality, or other agency engaged in a business or activity subject to this part.

(13)  "Red tag" means a card or device, red in color, containing printed notice of the condemnation of a liquefied petroleum gas system as a result of a violation of this part, or any rules or orders made by the board; the tag, when attached to the system, is official notice of condemnation and of the prohibition of further use, so long as the red tag remains lawfully affixed.

(14)  "System" means an assembly consisting of one or more containers with a means for conveying LPG from the container or containers to dispensing or consuming devices, either continuously or intermittently, and that incorporates components intended to achieve control of quantity, flow, and pressure or state, either liquid or vapor.

