53-7-403.   Test method and performance standard.
(1)  Except as provided in Subsection (8), no cigarettes may be sold or
offered for sale in this state or offered for sale or sold to persons located
in this state unless:
(a)  the cigarettes have been tested in accordance with the test method
required by this section;
(b)  the cigarettes meet the performance standard specified in this section;
(c)  a written certification has been filed by the manufacturer with the state
fire marshal in accordance with Section 53-7-404; and
(d)  the cigarettes have been marked in accordance with Section 53-7-405.
(2) (a)  Testing of cigarettes shall be conducted in accordance with the
American Society of Testing and Materials ("ASTM") standard E2187-04,
"Standard Test Method for Measuring the Ignition Strength of Cigarettes."
(b)  Testing shall be conducted on ten layers of filter paper.
(c)  No more than 25% of the cigarettes tested in a test trial in accordance
with this section shall exhibit full-length burns.  Forty replicate tests
shall comprise a complete test trial for each cigarette tested.
(d)  The performance standard required by this section shall only be applied
to a complete test trial.
(e)  Written certifications shall be based upon testing conducted by a
laboratory that has been accredited pursuant to standard ISO/IEC 17025 of the
International Organization for Standardization ("ISO"), or other comparable
accreditation standard required by the state fire marshal.
(f)  Laboratories conducting testing in accordance with this section shall
implement a quality control and quality assurance program that includes a
procedure that will determine the repeatability of the testing results.  The
repeatability value shall be no greater than 0.19.
(g)  This section does not require additional testing if cigarettes are tested
consistent with this part for any other purpose.
(h)  Testing performed or sponsored by the state fire marshal to determine a
cigarette's compliance with the performance standard required shall be
conducted in accordance with this section.
(3)  Each cigarette listed in a certification submitted pursuant to Section
53-7-404 that uses lowered permeability bands in the cigarette paper to
achieve compliance with the performance standard set forth in this section
shall have at least two nominally identical bands on the paper surrounding the
tobacco column.  At least one complete band shall be located at least 15
millimeters from the lighting end of the cigarette.  For cigarettes on which
the bands are positioned by design, there shall be at least two bands fully
located at least 15 millimeters from the lighting end and 10 millimeters from
the filter end of the tobacco column, or 10 millimeters from the labeled end
of the tobacco column for nonfiltered cigarettes.
(4)  A manufacturer of a cigarette that the state fire marshal determines
cannot be tested in accordance with the test method prescribed in Subsection
(2)(a) shall propose a test method and performance standard for the cigarette
to the state fire marshal.  Upon approval of the proposed test method and a
determination by the state fire marshal that the performance standard proposed
by the manufacturer is equivalent to the performance standard prescribed in
Subsection (2)(c), the manufacturer may employ such test method and
performance standard to certify such cigarette pursuant to Section 53-7-404.
If the state fire marshal determines that another state has enacted reduced
cigarette ignition propensity standards that include a test method and
performance standard that are the same as those contained in this part, and
the state fire marshal finds that the officials responsible for implementing
those requirements have approved the proposed alternative test method and
performance standard for a particular cigarette proposed by a manufacturer as
meeting the fire safety standards of that state's law or regulation under a
legal provision comparable to this section, then the state fire marshal shall
authorize that manufacturer to employ the alternative test method and
performance standard to certify that cigarette for sale in this state, unless
the state fire marshal demonstrates a reasonable basis why the alternative
test should not be accepted under this part.  All other applicable
requirements of this section shall apply to the manufacturer.
(5)  Each manufacturer shall maintain copies of the reports of all tests
conducted on all cigarettes offered for sale for a period of three years, and
shall make copies of these reports available to the state fire marshal and the
attorney general upon written request.  Any manufacturer who fails to make
copies of these reports available within 60 days of receiving a written
request shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $10,000 for each day
after the sixtieth day that the manufacturer does not make the copies
available.
(6)  The state fire marshal may adopt a subsequent ASTM Standard Test Method
for Measuring the Ignition Strength of Cigarettes upon a finding that the
subsequent method does not result in a change in the percentage of full-length
burns exhibited by any tested cigarette when compared to the percentage of
full-length burns the same cigarette would exhibit when tested in accordance
with ASTM Standard E2187-04 and the performance standard in Subsection (2)(c).
(7)  The state fire marshal shall review the effectiveness of this section and
report every three years to the Legislature the state fire marshal's findings
and, if appropriate, recommendations for legislation to improve the
effectiveness of this section.  The report and legislative recommendations
shall be submitted no later than November 1, 2011 and every November 1 of each
three-year period thereafter.
(8)  The requirements of Subsection (1) shall not prohibit wholesale or retail
dealers from selling their existing inventory of cigarettes on or after July
1, 2008 if the wholesale or retail dealer can establish that state tax stamps
were affixed to the cigarettes prior to July 1, 2008, and if the wholesale or
retail dealer can establish that the inventory was purchased prior to July 1,
2008 in comparable quantity to the inventory purchased during the same period
of the prior year.
(9)  This part shall be implemented in accordance with the implementation and
substance of the New York Fire Safety Standards for Cigarettes.
