53-7-404.   Certification and product change -- Restricted account created.
(1)  Each manufacturer shall submit to the state fire marshal a written
certification attesting that:
(a)  each cigarette listed in the certification has been tested in accordance
with Section 53-7-403; and
(b)  each cigarette listed in the certification meets the performance standard
set forth in Subsection 53-7-403(2)(c).
(2)  Each cigarette listed in the certification shall be described with the
following information:
(a)  brand, or trade name on the package;
(b)  style, such as light or ultra light;
(c)  length in millimeters;
(d)  circumference in millimeters;
(e)  flavor, such as menthol or chocolate, if applicable;
(f)  filter or nonfilter;
(g)  package description, such as soft pack or box;
(h)  marking approved in accordance with Section 53-7-405;
(i)  the name, address, and telephone number of the laboratory, if different
than the manufacturer that conducted the test; and
(j)  the date that the testing occurred.
(3)  The certifications shall be made available to the attorney general for
purposes consistent with this part and the State Tax Commission for the
purposes of ensuring compliance with this section.
(4)  Each cigarette certified under this section shall be recertified every
three years.
(5)  For each cigarette listed in a certification, a manufacturer shall pay to
the state fire marshal a $250 fee.  The state fire marshal is authorized to
annually adjust this fee to ensure it defrays the actual costs of the
processing, testing, enforcement, and oversight activities required by this
part.
(6) (a)  Beginning July 1, 2008, there is created a restricted account within
the General Fund called the "Reduced Cigarette Ignition Propensity and
Firefighter Protection Act Enforcement Account."
(b)  The account created in Subsection (6)(a) shall consist of all
certification fees submitted by manufacturers.
(c) (i)  The state treasurer shall invest monies in the account according to
Title 51, Chapter 7, State Money Management Act.
(ii)  The Division of Finance shall deposit interest or other earnings derived
from investment of account monies into the General Fund.
(d)  Upon appropriations from the Legislature, monies from the account created
in Subsection (6)(a) shall be used by the state fire marshal solely to support
processing, testing, enforcement, and oversight activities under this part.
(7) (a)  If a manufacturer has certified a cigarette pursuant to this section,
and thereafter makes any change to the certified cigarette that is likely to
alter its compliance with the reduced cigarette ignition propensity standards
required by this part, that cigarette shall not be sold or offered for sale in
this state until the manufacturer:
(i)  retests the cigarette in accordance with the testing standards set forth
in Section 53-7-403; and
(ii)  maintains records of that retesting as required by Section 53-7-403.
(b)  Any altered cigarette which does not meet the performance standard set
forth in Section 53-7-403 may not be sold in this state.
