53-7-405.   Marking of cigarette packaging.
(1)  Cigarettes that are certified by a manufacturer in accordance with
Section 53-7-404 shall be marked to indicate compliance with the requirements
of Section 53-7-403.  The marking shall be in eight-point type or larger and
consist of:
(a)  modification of the product UPC code to include a visible mark printed at
or around the area of the UPC code, which may include alphanumeric or symbolic
characters permanently stamped, engraved, embossed, or printed in conjunction
with the UPC;
(b)  any visible combination of alphanumeric or symbolic characters
permanently stamped, engraved, or embossed upon the cigarette package or
cellophane wrap; or
(c)  printed, stamped, engraved, or embossed text that indicates that the
cigarettes meet the standards of this part.
(2)  A manufacturer shall use only one marking, and shall apply this marking
uniformly for all packages marketed by the manufacturer, including:
(a)  packs;
(b)  cartons;
(c)  cases; and
(d)  any brands marketed by that manufacturer.
(3)  The manufacturer shall notify the state fire marshal of the marking that
it has selected in accordance with Subsection (2).
(4)  Prior to the certification of any cigarette, a manufacturer shall present
its proposed marking to the state fire marshal for approval.  Upon receipt of
the request, the state fire marshal shall approve or disapprove the marking
offered, except that the state fire marshal shall approve any marking in use
and approved for sale in New York pursuant to the New York Fire Safety
Standards for Cigarettes.  Proposed markings shall be considered approved if
the state fire marshal fails to act within ten business days of receiving a
request for approval.
(5)  No manufacturer shall modify its approved marking unless the modification
has been approved by the state fire marshal in accordance with this section.
(6) (a)  Manufacturers certifying cigarettes in accordance with Section
53-7-404 shall provide:
(i)  a copy of the certifications to all wholesale dealers and agents to which
they sell cigarettes; and
(ii)  sufficient copies of an illustration of the package marking utilized by
the manufacturer pursuant to this section for each retail dealer to which the
wholesale dealers or agents sell cigarettes.
(b)  Wholesale dealers and agents shall provide a copy of the package markings
received from manufacturers under Subsection (6)(a) to all retail dealers to
which they sell cigarettes.
(c)  Wholesale dealers, agents, and retail dealers shall permit the state fire
marshal, the State Tax Commission, the attorney general, and their employees
to inspect markings of cigarette packaging marked in accordance with this
section.
