4-11-2.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Abandoned apiary" means any apiary:

(a)  to which the owner or operator fails to give reasonable and adequate attention during a given year, with the result that the welfare of a neighboring colony is jeopardized; or

(b)  that is not properly identified in accordance with this chapter.

(2)  "Apiary" means any place where one or more colonies of bees are located.

(3)  "Apiary equipment" means hives, supers, frames, veils, gloves, or other equipment used to handle or manipulate bees, honey, wax, or hives.

(4)  "Appliance" means any apparatus, tool, machine, or other device used to handle or manipulate bees, wax, honey, or hives.

(5)  "Bee" means the common honey bee, Apis mellifera, at any stage of development.

(6) (a)  "Beekeeper" means a person who keeps bees in order to:

(i)  collect honey and beeswax;

(ii)  pollinate crops; or

(iii)  produce bees for sale to other beekeepers.

(b)  "Beekeeper" includes an apiarists.

(7)  "Colony" means an aggregation of bees in any type of hive that includes queens, workers, drones, or brood.

(8)  "Disease" means any disease or abnormal condition of the egg, larval, pupal, or adult stage of bee development.

(9)  "Hive" means a frame hive, box hive, box, barrel, log, gum skep, or other artificial or natural receptacle that may be used to house bees.

(10)  "Package" means any number of bees in a bee-tight container, with or without a queen, and without comb.

(11)  "Parasite" means an organism that parasitizes any developmental stage of a bee.

(12)  "Pest" means an organism that:

(a)  inflicts damage to a bee or bee colony directly or indirectly; or

(b)  may damage apiary equipment in a manner that is likely to have an adverse affect on the health of the colony or an adjacent colony.

(13)  "Raise" means:

(a)  to hold a colony of bees in a hive for the purpose of pollination, honey production, study, or similar purpose; and

(b)  when the person holding a colony, holds the colony or a package of bees in the state for a period of time exceeding 30 days.

(14)  "Terminal disease" means a pest, parasite, or pathogen that will kill an occupant colony or subsequent colony on the same equipment.

