4-11-4.   Bee raising -- Registration required -- Application -- Fees -- Renewal -- Wax-salvage plants -- License required -- Application -- Fees -- Renewal.

(1) (a)  A person may not raise bees in this state without being registered with the department.

(b)  Application for registration to raise bees shall be made to the department upon tangible or electronic forms prescribed and furnished by the department, within 30 days after the person:

(i)  takes possession of the bees; or

(ii)  moves the bees into the state.

(c)  Nothing in Subsection (1)(b) limits the requirements of Section 4-11-11.

(d)  An application in accordance with this chapter shall specify:

(i)  the name and address of the applicant;

(ii)  the number of bee colonies owned by the applicant at the time of the application that will be present in the state for a period exceeding 30 days; and

(iii)  any other relevant information the department considers appropriate.

(e)  Upon receipt of a proper application and payment of an annual registration fee determined by the department pursuant to Subsection 4-2-2(2), the commissioner shall issue a registration to the applicant valid through December 31 of the year in which the registration is issued, subject to suspension or revocation for cause. 

(f)  A bee registration is renewable for a period of one year upon the payment of an annual registration renewal fee as determined by the department pursuant to Subsection 4-2-2(2).

(g)  Registration shall be renewed on or before December 31 of each year.

(2) (a)  A person may not operate a wax-salvage plant without a license issued by the department.

(b)  Application for a license to operate a wax-salvage plant shall be made to the department upon tangible or electronic forms prescribed and furnished by the department.

(c)  The application shall specify such information as the department considers appropriate.

(d)  Upon receipt of a proper application and payment of a license fee as determined by the department pursuant to Subsection 4-2-2(2), the commissioner, if satisfied that the convenience and necessity of the industry and the public will be served, shall issue a license entitling the applicant to operate a wax-salvage plant through December 31 of the year in which the license is issued, subject to suspension or revocation for cause.

(e)  A wax-salvage license is renewable for a period of one year, on or before December 31 of each year, upon the payment of an annual license renewal fee as determined by the department pursuant to Subsection 4-2-2(2).



Amended by Chapter 73, 2010 General Session

