4-11-11.   Importation of bees or appliances into state -- Certification
required -- Inspection discretionary -- Authority to require destruction or
removal of diseased bees and appliances.
(1) (a)  A person may not bring or import any bees in packages or hives or
bring or import any used beekeeping equipment or appliances into this state,
except after obtaining a certificate from an inspector authorized in the state
of origin certifying that the bees, apiary equipment, or appliances have been
inspected within the current production season, and that all diseased colonies
in the apiary at the time of the inspection were destroyed or removed to a
licensed wax-salvage plant before the issuance of the certificate.
(b)  A person bringing or importing bees into the state shall advise the
department of the address of the bees destination and furnish the department
with a copy of the certificate of inspection either:
(i)  within at least five working days before the bees enter the state; or
(ii)  upon entry into the state.
(c)  A person intending to hold bees in the state for a period of time
exceeding 30 days shall comply with Section 4-11-4.
(2) (a)  A person may not bring or import any used apiary equipment, except
after obtaining a certificate from an inspector authorized in the state of
origin certifying that all potentially pathogen-conductive apiary equipment or
appliances are appropriately sterilized immediately before importation.
(b)  A person bringing or importing used apiary equipment shall advise the
department of the address of the destination in the state and furnish the
department with a copy of the certificate of inspection either:
(i)  within at least five working days before the bees enter the state; or
(ii)  upon entry into the state.
(3)  Used apiary equipment or appliances that have been exposed to terminal
disease may not be sold without the consent of the county bee inspector or the
commissioner.
(4)  In lieu of Subsection (1), the certificate may be a Utah certificate.
(5) (a)  If the department determines it is necessary for any reason to
inspect any bees, apiary equipment, or appliance upon arrival at a destination
in this state, and upon this inspection finds terminal disease, the department
shall cause all diseased colonies, appliances, and equipment to be either:
(i)  destroyed immediately; or
(ii)  removed from the state within 48 hours.
(b)  The costs under Subsection (5)(a)(i) or (ii) shall be paid by the person
bringing the diseased colonies, appliances, or equipment into the state.
