53C-3-102.   Deposit and allocation of money received.
(1) (a)  The director shall pay to the state treasurer all money received,
accompanied by a statement showing the respective sources of this money.
(b)  Each source shall be classified as to sales, rentals, royalties,
interest, fees, penalties, and forfeitures.
(2)  All money received from the sale of lands granted by Section 6 of the
Utah Enabling Act for the support of the common schools, all money received
from the sale of lands selected in lieu of those lands, all money received
from the United States under Section 9 of the Utah Enabling Act, all money
received from the sale of lands or other securities acquired by the state from
the investment of those funds, all sums paid for fees, all forfeitures, and
all penalties paid in connection with these sales shall be deposited in the
Permanent State School Fund.
(3)  All money received from the sale or other disposition of institutional
trust lands granted to the state by the United States under Section 7, 8, or
12 of the Utah Enabling Act, and all sums paid for fees, forfeitures, and
penalties received in connection with these sales or dispositions shall go to
the respective permanent funds established for the benefit of those
institutions under the Utah Enabling Act and the Utah Constitution.
(4) (a)  All lands acquired by the state through foreclosure of mortgages
securing school or institutional trust funds or through deeds from mortgagors
or owners of those lands shall become a part of the respective school or
institutional trust lands.
(b)  All money received from these lands shall be treated as monies received
from school or institutional trust lands.
(5)  All money received from the sale of lands acquired by the state through
foreclosure of mortgages securing trust funds or through deeds from mortgagors
or owners of such lands, whether a profit is realized or a loss sustained on
the principal invested, shall be regarded as principal and shall go into the
principal or permanent fund from which it was originally taken in
reimbursement of that fund, with profits being used to offset losses.
(6) (a)  All money received by the director as a first or down payment on
applications to purchase, permit, or lease trust lands or minerals shall be
paid to the state treasurer and held in suspense pending final action on those
applications.
(b)  After final action the payments received under Subsection (6)(a) shall
either be credited to the appropriate fund or account, or refunded to the
applicant in accordance with the action taken.
