53C-3-203.   Land Exchange Distribution Account.
(1)  As used in this section, "account" means the Land Exchange Distribution
Account created in Subsection (2)(a).
(2) (a)  There is created within the General Fund a restricted account known
as the Land Exchange Distribution Account.
(b)  The account shall consist of all revenue deposited in the account as
required by Subsections 53C-3-202(2)(a)(ii) and (2)(b)(ii).
(3) (a)  The state treasurer shall invest monies in the account according to
Title 51, Chapter 7, State Money Management Act.
(b)  The Division of Finance shall deposit interest or other earnings derived
from investment of account monies into the General Fund.
(4)  For fiscal years beginning on or after fiscal year 2007-08, because the
revenue is not derived from taxes, the Legislature shall annually appropriate
from the account:
(a)  55% of all deposits made to the account to counties in amounts
proportionate to the amounts of mineral revenue generated from the acquired
land, exchanged land, acquired mineral interests, or exchanged mineral
interests located in each county, to be used to mitigate the impacts caused by
mineral development;
(b)  25% of all deposits made to the account to counties in amounts
proportionate to the total surface and mineral acreage within each county that
was conveyed to the United States under the agreement or an exchange, to be
used to mitigate the loss of mineral development opportunities resulting from
the agreement or exchange;
(c)  1.68% of all deposits made to the account to the State Board of
Education, to be used for education research and experimentation in the use of
staff and facilities designed to improve the quality of education in Utah;
(d)  1.66% of all deposits made to the account to the Geological Survey, to be
used for natural resources development in the state;
(e)  1.66% of all deposits made to the account to the Water Research
Laboratory at Utah State University, to be used for water development in the
state; and
(f)  7.5% of all deposits made to the account to the Constitutional Defense
Restricted Account created in Section 63C-4-103.
(5)  For fiscal years 2007-08 and 2008-09, the Legislature shall annually
appropriate from the account 7.5% of all deposits made to the account to the
Geological Survey, to be used for test wells and other hydrologic studies in
the West Desert.
(6)  For fiscal years beginning on or after fiscal year 2009-10, the
Legislature shall annually appropriate from the account 7.5% of all deposits
made to the account to the Permanent Community Impact Fund created in Section
9-4-303, to be used for grants to political subdivisions of the state to
mitigate the impacts resulting from the development or use of school and
institutional trust lands.
