4-5-5.   Adulterated or misbranded articles -- Tagging -- Detention or
embargo -- Court proceedings for condemnation -- Perishable food.
(1) (a)  When an authorized agent of the department finds or has probable
cause to believe that any food is adulterated, or so misbranded as to be
dangerous or fraudulent within the meaning of this chapter, he shall affix to
the food a tag or other appropriate marking, giving notice that:
(i)  the food is, or is suspected of being, adulterated or misbranded;
(ii)  the food has been detained or embargoed; and
(iii)  removal of the food is prohibited as provided in Subsection (1)(b).
(b)  No person may remove or dispose of detained or embargoed food by sale or
otherwise until permission for removal or disposal is given by an agent of the
department or the court.
(2)  When food detained or embargoed under Subsection (1) has been found by an
agent to be adulterated or misbranded, the department shall petition the
district court in whose jurisdiction the food is detained or embargoed for an
order of condemnation of the food.  When the agent has found that food so
detained or embargoed is not adulterated or misbranded, the department shall
remove the tag or other marking.
(3) (a)  If the court finds that detained or embargoed food is adulterated or
misbranded, the food shall, after entry of the decree, be destroyed under the
supervision of the agent.
(b)  If the adulteration or misbranding can be corrected by proper labeling or
processing of the food, the court may by order direct that the food be
delivered to the claimant for labeling or processing after:
(i)  entry of the decree;
(ii)  all costs, fees, and expenses have been paid; and
(iii)  a sufficient bond, conditioned that the food shall be properly labeled
and processed, has been executed.
(c)  An agent of the department shall supervise, at the claimant's expense,
the labeling or processing of the food.
(d)  The bond shall be returned to the claimant of the food upon:
(i)  representation to the court by the department that the food is no longer
in violation of this chapter; and
(ii)  the expenses of supervision have been paid.
(4)  If an authorized agent of the department finds in any building or vehicle
any perishable food which is unsound, contains any filthy, decomposed, or
putrid substance, or may be poisonous, deleterious to health, or otherwise
unsafe, the commissioner or his authorized agent shall condemn or destroy the
food or render it unsalable as human food.
