4-5-15.   Consumer commodities -- Labeling and packaging.

(1)  All labels of consumer commodities, as defined by this chapter, shall conform with the requirements for the declaration of net quantity of contents of 15 U.S.C. Sec. 1453 and the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto: provided, that consumer commodities exempted from 15 U.S.C. Sec. 1453(4) shall also be exempt from this Subsection (1).

(2)  The label of any package of a consumer commodity that bears a representation as to the number of servings of the commodity contained in the package shall bear a statement of the net quantity in terms of weight, measure, or numerical count for each serving.

(3) (a)  No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed in commerce any packaged consumer commodity if any qualifying words or phrases appear in conjunction with the separate statement of the net quantity of contents required by Subsection (1), but nothing in this section shall prohibit supplemental statements, at other places on the package, describing in nondeceptive terms the net quantity of contents.

(b)  Supplemental statements of net quantity of contents may not include any term qualifying a unit of weight, measure, or count that tends to exaggerate the amount of the commodity contained in the package.

(4) (a)  Whenever the department determines that rules other than those prescribed by Subsection (1) are necessary to prevent the deception of consumers or to facilitate value comparisons as to any consumer commodity, the department shall promulgate rules effective to:

(i)  establish and define standards for the characterization of the size of a package enclosing any consumer commodity, which may be used to supplement the label statement of net quantity of contents of packages containing the commodity, but this Subsection (4) does not authorize any limitation on the size, shape, weight, dimensions, or number of packages that may be used to enclose any commodity;

(ii)  regulate the placement upon any package containing any commodity, or upon any label affixed to a commodity, of any printed matter stating or representing by implication that the commodity is offered for retail sale at a price lower than the ordinary and customary retail sale price or that a retail sale price advantage is accorded to purchasers by reason of the size of that package or the quantity of its contents;

(iii)  require that the label on each package of a consumer commodity bear:

(A)  the common or usual name of such consumer commodity, if any; and

(B)  if the consumer commodity consists of two or more ingredients, the common or usual name of each such ingredient listed in order of decreasing predominance, but nothing in this Subsection (4) shall be considered to require that any trade secret be divulged; or

(iv)  prevent the nonfunctional slack-fill of packages containing consumer commodities.

(b)  For the purposes of Subsection (4)(a)(iv), a package is nonfunctionally slack-filled if it is filled to substantially less than its capacity for reasons other than:

(i)  protection of the contents of such package; or

(ii)  the requirements of machines used for enclosing the contents in such package; provided, that the department may adopt any rules promulgated according to the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, 15 U.S.C. Sec. 1453.



Amended by Chapter 378, 2010 General Session

