20A-4-101.   Counting paper ballots during election day.

(1)  Each county legislative body or municipal legislative body that has voting precincts that use paper ballots and each poll worker in those voting precincts shall comply with the requirements of this section.

(2) (a)  Each county legislative body or municipal legislative body shall provide:

(i)  two sets of ballot boxes for all voting precincts where both receiving and counting judges have been appointed; and

(ii)  a counting room for the use of the poll workers counting the ballots during the day.

(b)  At any election in any voting precinct in which both receiving and counting judges have been appointed, when at least 20 votes have been cast, the receiving judges shall:

(i)  close the first ballot box and deliver it to the counting judges; and

(ii)  prepare and use another ballot box to receive voted ballots.

(c)  Upon receipt of the ballot box, the counting judges shall:

(i)  take the ballot box to the counting room;

(ii)  count the votes on the regular ballots in the ballot box;

(iii)  place the provisional ballot envelopes in the envelope or container provided for them for return to the election officer; and

(iv)  when they have finished counting the votes in the ballot box, return the emptied box to the receiving judges.

(d) (i)  During the course of election day, whenever there are at least 20 ballots contained in a ballot box, the receiving judges shall deliver that ballot box to the counting judges for counting; and

(ii)  the counting judges shall immediately count the regular ballots and segregate the provisional ballots contained in that box.

(e)  The counting judges shall continue to exchange the ballot boxes and count ballots until the polls close.

(3)  Counting poll watchers appointed as provided in Section 20A-3-201 may observe the count.

(4)  The counting judges shall apply the standards and requirements of Section 20A-4-105 to resolve any questions that arise as they count the ballots.



Amended by Chapter 225, 2008 General Session

