20A-4-106.   Paper ballots -- Sealing.

(1) (a) (i)  At all elections using paper ballots, as soon as the counting judges have read and tallied the ballots, they shall string the counted, excess, and spoiled ballots on separate strings.

(ii)  After the ballots are strung, they may not be examined by anyone, except when examined during a recount conducted under the authority of Section 20A-4-401.

(b)  The judges shall carefully seal all of the strung ballots in a strong envelope.

(2) (a)  For regular primary elections, after all the ballots have been counted, certified to, and strung by the judges, they shall seal the ballots cast for each of the parties in separate envelopes.

(b)  The judges shall:

(i)  seal each of the envelopes containing the votes of each of the political parties in one large envelope; and

(ii)  return that envelope to the county clerk.

(c)  The judges shall:

(i)  destroy the ballots in the blank ballot box; or

(ii)  if directed to do so by the election officer, return them to the election officer for destruction.

(3)  As soon as the judges have counted all the votes and sealed the ballots they shall sign and certify the pollbooks.

(4) (a) The judges, before they adjourn, shall:

(i)  enclose and seal the official register, the posting book, the pollbook, all affidavits of registration received by them, the ballot disposition form, the military and overseas absentee voter registration and voting certificates, one of the tally sheets, and any unprocessed absentee ballots in a strong envelope or pouch;

(ii)  ensure that all counted ballots, all excess ballots, and all spoiled ballots have been strung and placed in a separate envelope or pouch as required by Subsection (1);

(iii)  place all unused ballots, all spoiled ballots, one tally list, and a copy of the ballot disposition form in a separate envelope or pouch;

(iv)  place all provisional ballots in a separate envelope or pouch; and

(v)  place the total votes cast form and the judges' vouchers requesting compensation for services rendered in a separate pouch.

(b)  Before enclosing the official register in the envelope or pouch, the election judges shall certify it substantially as follows:

"We, the undersigned, judges of election for precinct _______, (jurisdiction) _______, Utah, certify that the required entries have been made for the election held __________(month\day\year), including:

a list of the ballot numbers for each voter;

the voters' signatures, except where a judge has signed for the absentee voters;

a list of information surrounding a voter who is challenged,

including any affidavits; and

a notation for each time a voter was assisted with a ballot."

(5)  Each judge shall:

(a)  write his name across the seal of each envelope or pouch;

(b)  mark on the exterior of the envelope or pouch:

(i)  the word "ballots" or "returns" or "unused ballots," or "provisional ballots" or other words plainly indicating the contents of the packages; and

(ii)  the number of the voting precinct.

