20A-4-301.   Board of canvassers.
(1) (a)  Each county legislative body is the board of county canvassers for:
(i)  the county; and
(ii)  each local district whose election is conducted by the county.
(b)  The board of county canvassers shall meet to canvass the returns at the
usual place of meeting of the county legislative body, at a date and time
determined by the county clerk that is no sooner than seven days after the
election and no later than 14 days after the election.
(c)  If one or more of the county legislative body fails to attend the meeting
of the board of county canvassers, the remaining members shall replace the
absent member by appointing in the order named:
(i)  the county treasurer;
(ii)  the county assessor; or
(iii)  the county sheriff.
(d)  Attendance of the number of persons equal to a simple majority of the
county legislative body, but not less than three persons, shall constitute a
quorum for conducting the canvass.
(e)  The county clerk is the clerk of the board of county canvassers.
(2) (a)  The mayor and the municipal legislative body are the board of
municipal canvassers for the municipality.
(b)  The board of municipal canvassers shall meet to canvass the returns at
the usual place of meeting of the municipal legislative body:
(i)  for canvassing of returns from a municipal general election, no sooner
than seven days after the election and no later than 14 days after the
election; or
(ii)  for canvassing of returns from a municipal primary election, no sooner
than three days after the election and no later than seven days after the
election.
(c)  Attendance of a simple majority of the municipal legislative body shall
constitute a quorum for conducting the canvass.
(3) (a)  The legislative body of the entity authorizing a bond election is the
board of canvassers for each bond election.
(b)  The board of canvassers for the bond election shall comply with the
canvassing procedures and requirements of Section 11-14-207.
(c)  Attendance of a simple majority of the legislative body of the entity
authorizing a bond election shall constitute a quorum for conducting the
canvass.
