53-9-104.   Board -- Creation-- Qualifications -- Appointments -- Terms --
Immunity.
(1)  There is established a Private Investigator Hearing and Licensure Board
consisting of five members appointed by the commissioner.
(2)  Each member of the board shall be a citizen of the United States and a
resident of this state at the time of appointment.
(a)  Two members shall be qualifying parties who are licensed as provided in
this chapter.
(b)  One member shall be a supervisory investigator from the commissioner's
office.
(c)  One member shall be a chief of police or sheriff.
(d)  One member shall be a public member who shall not have a financial
interest in a private investigative agency and shall not have an immediate
family member or a household member or friend who is licensed or registered
under this chapter.
(3) (a)  Each member of the board shall serve four-year staggered terms
beginning and ending on January 1.
(b)  Notwithstanding the term requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the
commissioner may adjust the length of terms to ensure the terms of board
members are staggered so that approximately one member of the board is
appointed every year.
(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(5)  At its first meeting every year, the board shall elect a chair, vice
chair, and secretary from its membership.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(7)  A member shall not serve more than one term, except that a member
appointed to fill a vacancy or appointed for an initial term of less than four
years may be reappointed for one full term.
(8)  The commissioner, after a board hearing and recommendation, may remove
any member of the board for misconduct, incompetency, or neglect of duty.
(9)  Members of the board are immune from suit with respect to all acts done
and actions taken in good faith in furtherance of the purposes of this
chapter.
