53-9-111.   License and registration fees -- Deposit in General Fund.

(1)  Fees for licensure and renewal shall be as follows:

(a)  for an original agency license application and license, $200, plus an additional fee for the costs of fingerprint processing and background investigation;

(b)  for the renewal of an agency license, $100;

(c)  for an original registrant or apprentice license application and license, $100, plus an additional fee for the costs of fingerprint processing and background investigation;

(d)  for the renewal of a registrant or apprentice license, $50;

(e)  for filing an agency renewal application more than 30 days after the expiration date of the license, a delinquency fee of $50;

(f)  for filing a registrant or apprentice renewal application more than 30 days after the expiration date of the registration, a delinquency fee of $30;

(g)  for the reinstatement of any license, $50;

(h)  for a duplicate identification card, $10; and

(i)  for the fingerprint processing fee, an amount that does not exceed the cost to the bureau charged by the Federal Bureau of Investigation for fingerprint processing for the purpose of obtaining federal criminal history record information.

(2) (a)  The bureau may renew a license granted under this chapter upon receipt of a renewal application on forms as prescribed by the bureau and upon receipt of the fees prescribed in Subsection (1).

(b)  The renewal of a license requires the filing of all certificates of insurance or proof of surety bond as required by this chapter.  Renewal of a license may not be granted more than 90 days after expiration.

(c)  A licensee may not engage in any activity subject to this chapter during any period between the date of expiration of the license and the renewal of the license.

(3) (a)  The bureau shall renew a suspended license if:

(i)  the period of suspension has been completed;

(ii)  the bureau has received a renewal application from the applicant on forms prescribed by the bureau; and

(iii)  the applicant has:

(A)  filed all certificates of insurance or proof of surety bond as required by this chapter; and

(B)  paid the fees required by this section for renewal, including a delinquency fee if the application is not received by the bureau within 30 days of the termination of the suspension.

(b)  Renewal of the license does not entitle the licensee, while the license remains suspended and until it is reinstated, to engage in any activity regulated by this chapter, or in any other activity or conduct in violation of the order or judgment by which the license was suspended.

(4)  The bureau may not reinstate a revoked license or accept an application for a license from a person whose license has been revoked for at least one year from the date of revocation.

(5)  All fees, except the fingerprint processing fee, collected by the bureau under this section shall be deposited in the General Fund.

