53-9-112.   Issuance of license and identification card to applicant -- License period -- Expiration of application -- Transfer of license prohibited.

(1)  The commissioner shall issue a license to an applicant who complies with the provisions of this chapter.  Each license issued under this chapter shall:

(a)  contain the name and address of the licensee and the number of the license, its agency, registrant, or apprentice license designation; and

(b)  be issued for a period of two years.

(2)  On the issuance of a license, an identification card shall:

(a)  be issued without charge to the licensee; and

(b)  state on its face whether the bearer holds an agency, registrant, or apprentice license.

(3) (a) A registrant identification card shall state that the licensee is under the direction of a licensed agency and may not do investigative work independently for the public.

(b)  An apprentice identification card shall state that the licensee is under the direct supervision of a licensed agency and may not do investigative work independently for the public.

(4)  Upon request by any person, the licensee shall immediately identify the name, business address, and phone number of the licensed agency for which the licensee is an employee or independent contractor.

(5) (a)  On notification by the commissioner to an applicant that the license is not complete, or is not ready for issuance pending additional information, the applicant shall complete the application process and provide the additional information within 90 days.

(b)  Failure to complete the process shall result in the application being cancelled and all fees forfeited.

(c)  Subsequent application by the same applicant requires the payment of all application and license fees prescribed in Section 53-9-111.

(6)  A licensee shall notify the commissioner of any change in the name or address of his business within 60 days of the change and failure to so notify will result in the automatic suspension of the license.  To relieve the suspension, the licensee must apply for reinstatement and pay the fee prescribed in Section 53-9-111.

(7)  A license issued under this chapter is not transferable or assignable.



Amended by Chapter 212, 1998 General Session

