63G-1-601.   State symbols.

(1)  Utah's state animal is the elk.

(2)  Utah's state bird is the sea gull.

(3)  Utah's state centennial astronomical symbol is the Beehive Cluster located in the constellation of Cancer the Crab.

(4)  Utah's state centennial star is Dubhe, one of the seven bright stars composing the Big Dipper in the constellation Ursa Major.

(5)  Utah's state centennial tartan, which honors the first Scots known to have been in Utah and those Utahns of Scottish heritage, shall have a pattern or repeating-half-sett of white-2, blue-6, red-6, blue-4, red-6, green-18, red-6, and white-4 to represent the tartan worn anciently by the Logan and Skene clans, with the addition of a white stripe.

(6)  Utah's state cooking pot is the dutch oven.

(7)  Utah's state emblem is the beehive.

(8)  Utah's state emblem of service and sacrifice of lives lost by members of the military in defense of our freedom is the "Honor and Remember" flag, which consists of:

(a)  a red field covering the top two-thirds of the flag;

(b)  a white field covering the bottom one-third of the flag, which contains the words "honor" and "remember";

(c)  a blue star overlaid by a gold star with a thin white border in the center of the flag spanning the red field and the white field; and

(d)  a representation of a folded United States flag beneath the blue and gold stars with three tongues of flame emanating from its top point into the center of the gold star.

(9)  Utah's state firearm is the John M. Browning designed M1911 automatic pistol.

(10)  Utah's state fish is the Bonneville cutthroat trout.

(11)  Utah's state flower is the sego lily.

(12)  Utah's state folk dance is the square dance, the folk dance that is called, cued, or prompted to the dancers and includes squares, rounds, clogging, contra, line, and heritage dances.

(13)  Utah's state fossil is the Allosaurus.

(14)  Utah's state fruit is the cherry.

(15)  Utah's state vegetable is the Spanish sweet onion.

(16)  Utah's historic state vegetable is the sugar beet.

(17)  Utah's state gem is topaz, as is prominently found in the Thomas Mountain Range in Juab County, Utah.

(18)  Utah's state grass is Indian rice grass.

(19)  Utah's state hymn is "Utah We Love Thee" by Evan Stephens.

(20)  Utah's state insect is the honeybee.

(21)  Utah's state mineral is copper.

(22)  Utah's state motto is "Industry."

(23)  Utah's state railroad museum is Ogden Union Station.

(24)  Utah's state rock is coal.

(25)  Utah's state song is "Utah This is the Place" by Sam and Gary Francis.

(26)  Utah's state tree is the blue spruce.

(27)  Utah's state winter sports are skiing and snowboarding.



Amended by Chapter 44, 2012 General Session

