11-30-2.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Attorney general" means the attorney general of the state or one of his assistants.

(2)  "Bonds" means any evidence or contract of indebtedness that is issued or authorized by a public body, including, without limitation, bonds, refunding bonds, advance refunding bonds, bond anticipation notes, tax anticipation notes, notes, certificates of indebtedness, warrants, commercial paper, contracts, and leases, whether they are general obligations of the issuing public body or are payable solely from a specified source, including annual appropriations by the public body.

(3)  "County attorney" means the county attorney of a county or one of his assistants.

(4)  "Lease" means any lease agreement, lease purchase agreement, and installment purchase agreement, and any certificate of interest or participation in any of the foregoing.  Reference in this chapter to issuance of bonds includes execution and delivery of leases.

(5)  "Person" means any person, association, corporation, or other entity.

(6)  "Public body" means the state or any agency, authority, instrumentality, or institution of the state, or any county, municipality, quasi-municipal corporation, school district, local district, special service district, political subdivision, or other governmental entity existing under the laws of the state, whether or not possessed of any taxing power.  With respect to leases, public body, as used in this chapter, refers to the public body which is the lessee, or is otherwise the obligor with respect to payment under any such leases.

(7)  "Refunding bonds" means any bonds that are issued to refund outstanding bonds, including both refunding bonds and advance refunding bonds.

(8)  "State" means the state of Utah.

(9)  "Validity" means any matter relating to the legality and validity of the bonds and the security therefor, including, without limitation, the legality and validity of:

(a)  a public body's authority to issue and deliver the bonds;

(b)  any ordinance, resolution, or statute granting the public body authority to issue and deliver the bonds;

(c)  all proceedings, elections, if any, and any other actions taken or to be taken in connection with the issuance, sale, or delivery of the bonds;

(d)  the purpose, location, or manner of the expenditure of funds;

(e)  the organization or boundaries of the public body;

(f)  any assessments, taxes, rates, rentals, fees, charges, or tolls levied or that may be levied in connection with the bonds;

(g)  any lien, proceeding, or other remedy for the collection of those assessments, taxes, rates, rentals, fees, charges, or tolls;

(h)  any contract or lease executed or to be executed in connection with the bonds;

(i)  the pledge of any taxes, revenues, receipts, rentals, or property, or encumbrance thereon or security interest therein to secure the bonds; and

(j)  any covenants or provisions contained in or to be contained in the bonds.  If any deed, will, statute, resolution, ordinance, lease, indenture, contract, franchise, or other instrument may have an effect on any of the aforementioned, validity also means a declaration of the validity and legality thereof and of rights, status, or other legal relations arising therefrom.



Amended by Chapter 378, 2010 General Session

