31A-23a-115.   Appointment of individual and agency insurance producer,
limited line producer, or managing general agent -- Reports and lists.
(1) (a)  An insurer shall appoint an individual or agency with whom it has a
contract as an insurance producer, limited line producer, or managing general
agent to act on the insurer's behalf in order for the licensee to do business
for the insurer in this state.
(b)  An insurer shall report to the commissioner, at intervals and in the form
the commissioner establishes by rule:
(i) a new appointment; and
(ii)  a termination of appointment.
(2) (a) (i)  An insurer shall report to the commissioner the cause of
termination of an appointment if:
(A)  the reason for termination is a reason described in Subsection 31A-
23a-111(5)(b); or
(B)  the insurer has knowledge that the individual or agency licensee is found
to have engaged in an activity described in Subsection 31A-23a-111(5)(b) by:
(I)  a court;
(II)  a government body; or
(III)  a self-regulatory organization, which the commissioner may define by
rule made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act.
(ii)  The information provided to the commissioner under this Subsection (2)
is a private record under Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and
Management Act.
(b)  An insurer is immune from civil action, civil penalty, or damages if the
insurer complies in good faith with this Subsection (2) in reporting to the
commissioner the cause of termination of an appointment.
(c)  Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, an insurer is not
immune from any action or resulting penalty imposed on the reporting insurer
as a result of proceedings brought by or on behalf of the department if the
action is based on evidence other than the report submitted in compliance with
this Subsection (2).
(3)  If an insurer appoints an agency, the insurer need not appoint, report,
or pay appointment reporting fees for an individual designated on the agency's
license under Section 31A-23a-302.
(4)  If an insurer lists a licensee in a report submitted under Subsection
(2), there is a rebuttable presumption that in placing a risk with the insurer
the appointed licensee or any of the licensee's licensed employees act on
behalf of the insurer.
