31A-23a-302.   Agency designations.
(1)  An agency shall designate an individual that has an individual producer,
limited line producer, customer service representative, consultant, managing
general agent, or reinsurance intermediary license to act on the agency's
behalf in order for the licensee to do business for the agency in this state.
(2)  An agency shall report to the commissioner, at intervals and in the form
the commissioner establishes by rule:
(a)  a new designation; and
(b)  a terminated designation.
(3) (a)  An agency licensed under this chapter shall report to the
commissioner the cause of termination of a designation if:
(i)  the reason for termination is a reason described in Subsection 31A-
23a-111(5)(b); or
(ii)  the agency has knowledge that the individual licensee is found to have
engaged in an activity described in Subsection 31A-23a-111(5)(b) by:
(A)  a court;
(B)  a government body; or
(C)  a self-regulatory organization, which the commissioner may define by rule
made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act.
(b)  The information provided the commissioner under Subsection (3)(a) is a
private record under Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and
Management Act.
(c)  An agency is immune from civil action, civil penalty, or damages if the
agency complies in good faith with this Subsection (3) in reporting to the
commissioner the cause of termination of a designation.
(d)  Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, an agency is not
immune from an action or resulting penalty imposed on the reporting agency as
a result of proceedings brought by or on behalf of the department if the
action is based on evidence other than the report submitted in compliance with
this Subsection (3).
(4)  An agency licensed under this chapter may act in a capacity for which it
is licensed only through an individual who is licensed under this chapter to
act in the same capacity.
(5)  An agency licensed under this chapter shall designate and report to the
commissioner in accordance with any rule made by the commissioner the name of
the designated responsible licensed individual who has authority to act on
behalf of the agency in all matters pertaining to compliance with this title
and orders of the commissioner.
(6)  If an agency designates a licensee in reports submitted under Subsection
(2) or (5), there is a rebuttable presumption that the designated licensee
acts on behalf of the agency.
(7) (a)  When a license is held by an agency, both the agency itself and any
individual designated under the agency license shall be considered to be the
holder of the agency license for purposes of this section.
(b)  If an individual designated under the agency license commits an act or
fails to perform a duty that is a ground for suspending, revoking, or limiting
the agency license, the commissioner may suspend, revoke, or limit the license
of:
(i)  the individual;
(ii)  the agency, if the agency:
(A)  is reckless or negligent in its supervision of the individual; or
(B)  knowingly participates in the act or failure to act that is the ground
for suspending, revoking, or limiting the license; or
(iii) (A)  the individual; and
(B)  the agency if the agency meets the requirements of Subsection (7)(b)(ii).
