31A-23a-415.   Assessment on title insurance agencies or title insurers --
Account created.
(1)  For purposes of this section:
(a)  "Premium" is as defined in Subsection 59-9-101(3).
(b)  "Title insurer" means a person:
(i)  making any contract or policy of title insurance as:
(A)  insurer;
(B)  guarantor; or
(C)  surety;
(ii)  proposing to make any contract or policy of title insurance as:
(A)  insurer;
(B)  guarantor; or
(C)  surety; or
(iii)  transacting or proposing to transact any phase of title insurance,
including:
(A)  soliciting;
(B)  negotiating preliminary to execution;
(C)  executing of a contract of title insurance;
(D)  insuring; and
(E)  transacting matters subsequent to the execution of the contract and
arising out of the contract.
(c)  "Utah risks" means insuring, guaranteeing, or indemnifying with regard to
real or personal property located in Utah, an owner of real or personal
property, the holders of liens or encumbrances on that property, or others
interested in the property against loss or damage suffered by reason of:
(i)  liens or encumbrances upon, defects in, or the unmarketability of the
title to the property; or
(ii)  invalidity or unenforceability of any liens or encumbrances on the
property.
(2) (a) The commissioner may assess each title insurer and each title
insurance agency an annual assessment:
(i)  determined by the Title and Escrow Commission:
(A)  after consultation with the commissioner; and
(B)  in accordance with this Subsection (2); and
(ii)  to be used for the purposes described in Subsection (3).
(b)  A title insurance agency shall be assessed up to:
(i)  $200 for the first office in each county in which the title insurance
agency maintains an office; and
(ii)  $100 for each additional office the title insurance agency maintains in
the county described in Subsection (2)(b)(i).
(c)  A title insurer shall be assessed up to:
(i)  $200 for the first office in each county in which the title insurer
maintains an office;
(ii)  $100 for each additional office the title insurer maintains in the
county described in Subsection (2)(c)(i); and
(iii)  an amount calculated by:
(A)  aggregating the assessments imposed on:
(I)  title insurance agencies under Subsection (2)(b); and
(II)  title insurers under Subsections (2)(c)(i) and (2)(c)(ii);
(B)  subtracting the amount determined under Subsection (2)(c)(iii)(A) from
the total costs and expenses determined under Subsection (2)(d); and
(C)  multiplying:
(I)  the amount calculated under Subsection (2)(c)(iii)(B); and
(II)  the percentage of total premiums for title insurance on Utah risk that
are premiums of the title insurer.
(d)  Notwithstanding Section 31A-3-103 and subject to Section 31A-2-404, the
Title and Escrow Commission by rule shall establish the amount of costs and
expenses described under Subsection (3) that will be covered by the
assessment, except the costs or expenses to be covered by the assessment may
not exceed $75,000 annually.
(3) (a) Money received by the state under this section shall be deposited into
the Title Licensee Enforcement Restricted Account.
(b)  There is created in the General Fund a restricted account known as the
"Title Licensee Enforcement Restricted Account."
(c)  The Title Licensee Enforcement Restricted Account shall consist of the
money received by the state under this section.
(d)  The commissioner shall administer the Title Licensee Enforcement
Restricted Account.  Subject to appropriations by the Legislature, the
commissioner shall use the money deposited into the Title Licensee Enforcement
Restricted Account only to pay for a cost or expense incurred by the
department in the administration, investigation, and enforcement of this part
and Part 5, Compensation of Producers and Consultants, related to:
(i)  the marketing of title insurance; and
(ii)  audits of agencies.
(e)  An appropriation from the Title Licensee Enforcement Restricted Account
is nonlapsing.
(4)  The assessment imposed by this section shall be in addition to any
premium assessment imposed under Subsection 59-9-101(3).
