31A-23a-702.   Minimum standards.

(1)  This section applies if, in any calendar year, the aggregate amount of gross written premium on business placed with a controlled insurer by a controlling producer is equal to or greater than 5% of the admitted assets of the controlled insurer, as reported in the controlled insurer's quarterly statement filed as of September 30 of the prior year.

(2)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1), this section does not apply if:

(a)  the controlling producer places insurance only with the controlled insurer, or only with the controlled insurer and members of the controlled insurer's holding company system, or with the controlled insurer's parent, affiliate, or subsidiary and receives no compensation based upon the amount of premiums written in connection with the insurance placed;

(b)  the controlling producer accepts insurance placements only from nonaffiliated producers who are not controlling producers, and not directly from insureds; and

(c)  the controlled insurer, except for insurance business written through a residual market facility, accepts insurance business only from a controlling producer, a producer controlled by the controlled insurer, or a producer that is a subsidiary of the controlled insurer.

(3)  A controlled insurer may not accept business from a controlling producer and a controlling producer may not place business with a controlled insurer unless there is a written contract between the controlling producer and the insurer that specifies the responsibilities of each party and that has been approved by the board of directors of the insurer.  The contract shall contain the following minimum provisions:

(a)  The controlled insurer may terminate the contract for cause, upon written notice to the controlling producer.  The controlled insurer shall suspend the authority of the controlling producer to write business during the pendency of any dispute regarding the cause for the termination.

(b)  The controlling producer shall render accounts to the controlled insurer detailing all material transactions, including information necessary to support all commissions, charges, and other fees received by, or owing to, the controlling producer.

(c)  The controlling producer shall remit all funds due under the terms of the contract to the controlled insurer at least monthly.  The due date shall be fixed so that premiums or premium installments collected shall be remitted no later than 90 days after the effective date of any policy placed with the controlled insurer under the contract.

(d)  All funds collected for the controlled insurer's account shall be held by the controlling producer in a fiduciary capacity, in one or more appropriately identified bank accounts in banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System FDIC, in accordance with applicable provisions of this title.  However, funds of a controlling producer not required to be licensed in this state shall be maintained in compliance with the requirements of the controlling producer's domiciliary jurisdiction.

(e)  The controlling producer shall maintain separately identifiable records of business written for the controlled insurer.

(f)  The contract may not be assigned in whole or in part by the controlling producer.

(g)  The controlled insurer shall provide the controlling producer with its underwriting standards, rules, procedures, and manuals setting forth the rates to be charged, and the conditions for the acceptance or rejection of risks.  The controlling producer shall adhere to the standards, rules, procedures, rates, and conditions.  The standards, rules, procedures, rates, and conditions shall be the same as those applicable to comparable business placed with the controlled insurer by a producer other than the controlling producer.

(h)  The contract shall state the rates and terms of the controlling producer's commissions, charges, or other fees and the purposes for those charges or fees.  The rates of the commissions, charges, and other fees may not be greater than those applicable to comparable business and services placed with the controlled insurer by producers other than controlling producers.  For purposes of Subsections (3)(g) and (h), examples of "comparable business and services" include the same lines of insurance, same kinds of insurance, same kinds of risks, similar policy limits, and similar quality of business.

(i)  If the contract provides that the controlling producer, on insurance business placed with the insurer, is to be compensated contingent upon the insurer's profits on that business, then the compensation may not be determined and paid until at least five years after the premiums on liability insurance are earned, and at least one year after the premiums are earned on any other insurance.  In no event may the commissions be paid until the adequacy of the controlled insurer's reserves on remaining claims has been independently verified pursuant to Subsection (5).

(j)  The contract shall include a limit on the controlling producer's writings in relation to the controlled insurer's surplus and total writings.  The insurer may establish a different limit to each line or subline of business.  The controlled insurer shall notify the controlling producer when the applicable limit is approached and shall not accept business from the controlling producer if the limit is reached.  The controlling producer may not place business with the controlled insurer if it has been notified by the controlled insurer that the limit has been reached.

(k)  The controlling producer may negotiate but may not bind reinsurance on behalf of the controlled insurer on business the controlling producer places with the controlled insurer.  However, the controlling producer may bind facultative reinsurance contracts pursuant to obligatory facultative agreements if the contract with the controlled insurer contains underwriting guidelines including, for both reinsurance assumed and ceded, a list of reinsurers with which the automatic agreements are in effect, the coverages and amounts or percentages that may be reinsured, and commission schedules.

(4)  Each controlled insurer shall have an audit committee of the board of directors.  The audit committee shall annually meet to review the adequacy of the insurer's loss reserves.  The committee shall meet with management, the insurer's independent certified public accountants, and an independent casualty actuary or any other independent loss reserve specialists acceptable to the commissioner.

(5) (a)  In addition to any other required loss reserve certification, the controlled insurer shall file with the commissioner on April 1 of each year an opinion of an independent casualty actuary, or any other independent loss reserve specialist acceptable to the commissioner.  The opinion shall report loss ratios for each line of business written and shall attest to the adequacy of loss reserves established for losses incurred and outstanding as of year-end on business placed by the producer including losses incurred but not reported.

(b)  The controlled insurer shall annually report to the commissioner the amount of commissions paid to the producer, the percentage that amount represents of the net premiums written, and comparable amounts and percentage paid to noncontrolling producers for placements of the same kinds of insurance.

