31A-23a-801.   Licensure.

(1)  A person, firm, association, or corporation may not act as a reinsurance intermediary-broker in this state if the reinsurance intermediary-broker maintains an office either directly or as a member or employee of a firm or association, or an officer, director, or employee of a corporation unless:

(a)  in this state, the reinsurance intermediary-broker is a licensed producer in this state; or

(b)  in another state, the reinsurance intermediary-broker is a licensed producer in this state or another state having a licensing law substantially similar to this part, or the reinsurance intermediary-broker is licensed in this state as a nonresident reinsurance intermediary.

(2)  A person, firm, association, or corporation may not act as a reinsurance intermediary-manager:

(a)  for a reinsurer domiciled in this state, unless the reinsurance intermediary-manager is a licensed producer in this state;

(b)  in this state, if the reinsurance intermediary-manager maintains an office either directly or as a member or employee of a firm or association, or as an officer, director, or employee of a corporation in this state, unless the reinsurance intermediary-manager is a licensed producer in this state; or

(c)  in another state for a nondomestic insurer, unless the reinsurance intermediary-manager is a licensed producer in this state or another state having a licensing law substantially similar to this chapter, or the person is licensed in this state as a nonresident reinsurance intermediary.

(3)  The commissioner may require a bond in an amount he finds acceptable for the protection of each reinsurer represented.

(4) (a)  The commissioner may issue a reinsurance intermediary license to any person, firm, association, or corporation which has complied with the requirements of this chapter.

(i)  Any license issued to a firm or association will authorize all the members of the firm or association, and any designated employees, to act as reinsurance intermediaries under the license.  Each member, employee, or similar person shall be named in the application and any supplements to the application.

(ii)  Any license issued to a corporation shall authorize all of the officers, directors, and any designated employees to act as reinsurance intermediaries on behalf of the corporation, and all authorized persons shall be named in the application and any supplements to the application.

(b)  If the applicant for a reinsurance intermediary license is a nonresident, the applicant, as a condition precedent to receiving or holding a license, shall designate the commissioner as agent for service of process in the manner, and with the same legal effect, provided for by this title for designation of service of process upon unauthorized insurers.  The applicant also shall furnish the commissioner with the name and address of a resident of this state upon whom notices or orders of the commissioner or process affecting the nonresident reinsurance intermediary may be served.  The licensee shall promptly notify the commissioner in writing of every change in its designated agent for service of process, and the change does not become effective until acknowledged by the commissioner.

(5)  The commissioner may refuse to issue a reinsurance intermediary license if he determines that the applicant, any one named on the application, or any member, principal, officer, or director of the applicant, is not trustworthy, or that any controlling person of the applicant is not trustworthy to act as a reinsurance intermediary, or that any of the persons named has given cause for revocation or suspension of the license, or has failed to comply with any prerequisite for the issuance of the license.  Upon written request the commissioner will furnish a summary of the basis for his refusal to issue a license. The summary document shall be confidential.

(6)  Licensed attorneys-at-law of this state when acting in their professional capacity as attorneys are exempt from this section.

