31A-23a-805.   Required contract provisions -- Reinsurance intermediary-
manager.
Transactions between a reinsurance intermediary-manager and the reinsurer it
represents in that capacity may only be entered into pursuant to a written
contract, which specifies the responsibilities of each party, and which shall
be approved by the reinsurer's board of directors.  At least 30 days before
the reinsurer assumes or cedes business through the producer, a true copy of
the approved contract shall be filed with the commissioner for approval.  The
contract shall, at a minimum, provide or require the following:
(1)  The reinsurer may terminate the contract for cause upon written notice to
the reinsurance intermediary-manager.  The reinsurer may immediately suspend
the authority of the reinsurance intermediary-manager to assume or cede
business during the pendency of any dispute regarding the cause for
termination.
(2)  The reinsurance intermediary-manager will render accounts to the
reinsurer accurately detailing all material transactions, including
information necessary to support all commissions, charges, and other fees
received by, or owing to the reinsurance intermediary-manager, and he shall
remit all funds due under the contract to the reinsurer at least monthly.
(3)  All funds collected for the reinsurer's account will be held by the
reinsurance intermediary-manager in a fiduciary capacity in a financial
institution which is a qualified United States financial institution.  The
reinsurance intermediary-manager may retain no more than three months
estimated claims payments and allocated loss adjustment expenses.  The
reinsurance intermediary-manager shall maintain a separate account for each
reinsurer that it represents.
(4)  For at least 10 years after expiration of each contract of reinsurance
transacted by the reinsurance intermediary-manager, he shall keep a complete
record for each transactions showing:
(a)  the type of contract, limits, underwriting restrictions, classes of
risks, and territory;
(b)  period of coverage, including effective and expiration dates,
cancellation provisions and notice required of cancellation, and disposition
of outstanding reserves on covered risks;
(c)  reporting and settlement requirements of balances;
(d)  rates used to compute the reinsurance premium;
(e)  names and addresses of reinsurers;
(f)  rates of all reinsurance commissions, including the commissions on any
retrocessions handled by the reinsurance intermediary-manager;
(g)  related correspondence and memoranda;
(h)  proof of placement;
(i)  details regarding retrocessions handled by the reinsurance intermediary-
manager, as permitted by Subsection 31A-23a-807(4), including the identity of
retrocessionaires and percentage of each contract assumed or ceded;
(j)  financial records, including premium and loss accounts; and
(k)  when the reinsurance intermediary-manager places a reinsurance contract
on behalf of a ceding insurer:
(i)  directly from any assuming reinsurer, written evidence that the assuming
reinsurer has agreed to assume the risk; or
(ii)  if placed through a representative of the assuming reinsurer, other than
an employee, written evidence that the reinsurer has delegated binding
authority to the representative.
(5)  The reinsurer will have access and the right to copy all accounts and
records maintained by the reinsurance intermediary-manager which are related
to its business, in a form usable by the reinsurer.
(6)  The contract cannot be assigned in whole or in part by the reinsurance
intermediary-manager.
(7)  The reinsurance intermediary-manager will comply with the written
underwriting and rating standards established by the insurer for the
acceptance, rejection, or cession of all risks.
(8)  The contract shall set forth the rates, terms, and purposes of
commissions, charges, and other fees which the reinsurance intermediary-
manager may levy against the reinsurer.
(9)  If the contract permits the reinsurance intermediary-manager to settle
claims on behalf of the reinsurer:
(a)  All claims will be reported to the reinsurer in a timely manner.
(b)  A copy of the claim file will be sent to the reinsurer at its request or
as soon as it becomes known that the claim:
(i)  has the potential to exceed the lesser of an amount determined by the
commissioner or the limit set by the reinsurer;
(ii)  involves a coverage dispute;
(iii)  may exceed the reinsurance intermediary-manager claims settlement
authority;
(iv)  is open for more than six months; or
(v)  is closed by payment of the lesser of an amount set by the commissioner
or an amount set by the reinsurer.
(c)  All claim files will be the joint property of the reinsurer and
reinsurance intermediary-manager.  However, upon an order of liquidation of
the reinsurer the files shall become the sole property of the reinsurer or its
estate.  The reinsurance intermediary-manager shall have reasonable access to
and the right to copy the files on a timely basis.
(d)  Any settlement authority granted to the reinsurance intermediary-manager
may be terminated for cause upon the reinsurer's written notice to the
reinsurance intermediary-manager, or upon the termination of the contract.
The reinsurer may suspend the settlement authority during the pendency of the
dispute regarding the cause of termination.
(10)  If the contract provides for a sharing of interim profits by the
reinsurance intermediary-manager, that the contract shall provide interim
profits will not be paid until one year after the end of each underwriting
period for property business and five years after the end of each underwriting
period for casualty business, or a later time period set by the commissioner
for specified lines of insurance, and not until the adequacy of reserves on
remaining claims has been verified pursuant to Subsection 31A-23a-807(3).
(11)  The reinsurance intermediary-manager will annually provide the reinsurer
with a statement of its financial condition prepared by an independent
certified public accountant.
(12)  The reinsurer shall at least semi-annually conduct an on-site review of
the underwriting and claims processing operations of the reinsurance
intermediary-manager.
(13)  The reinsurance intermediary-manager will disclose to the reinsurer any
relationship it has with any insurer prior to ceding or assuming any business
with the insurer pursuant to this contract.
(14)  Within the scope of its actual or apparent authority the acts of the
reinsurance intermediary-manager shall be considered to be the acts of the
reinsurer on whose behalf it is acting.
