53B-8-101.   Waiver of tuition.
(1) (a)  The president of each institution may waive all or part of the
tuition in behalf of meritorious or impecunious resident students to an amount
not exceeding 10% of the total amount of tuition which, in the absence of the
waivers, would have been collected from all Utah resident students at the
institution.
(b)  Two and a half percent of the waivers designated in Subsection (1)(a)
shall be set aside for members of the Utah National Guard.  Waivers shall be
preserved by the student at least 60 days before the beginning of an academic
term.
(2) (a)  Each academic year the president of each of the following
institutions may waive all or part of the resident portion of the tuition in
behalf of the additional number of meritorious nonresident students set forth
below who are not current recipients of the waiver:
Number of Nonresident
       Institution                                              Students
the University of Utah                                     190
Utah State University                                              165
Weber State University                                     135
Southern Utah University                                             68
Snow College                                                         18
Dixie State College of Utah                                          30
the College of Eastern Utah                                          18
Utah Valley University                                     114
Salt Lake Community College                                  43
(b) (i)  The president may continue to waive the resident portion of the
tuition during the entire time the affected meritorious nonresident student
remains an undergraduate student in good standing at the institution.
(ii)  The resident portion of the tuition for each nonresident student is
equal to the tuition for resident students at the institution.
(c)  The president may waive the nonresident portion of tuition for a
meritorious nonresident student receiving a waiver under Subsection (2)(a)
after completion of the student's first year of full-time study at the
institution.
(d) (i)  In addition to the waivers authorized by Subsections (2)(a) and (c),
the president may waive all or part of the nonresident portion of tuition for
a meritorious nonresident student during the student's first year of full-time
study at the institution.
(ii)  The number of these nonresident waivers for each institution is limited
to the percentage of nonresident students at each institution times the
nonresident student number allowed under Subsection (2)(a).
(3)  Upon recommendation of the board, the president may grant additional full
or partial tuition waivers to encourage students to enroll for instruction in
occupations critical to the state for which trained personnel are in short
supply.
(4)  The president may waive all or part of the difference between resident
and nonresident tuition in the case of meritorious graduate students and
nonresident summer school students.
(5)  The board shall submit annual budget appropriation requests for each
institution which include requests for funds sufficient in amount to equal the
estimated loss of dedicated credits that would be realized if all of the
tuition waivers authorized by Subsection (2) were granted.
