53B-8-103.   Waiver of nonresident differential in tuition rates -- Dixie
State College of Utah good neighbor tuition waivers.
(1)  Notwithstanding any other provision of law:
(a) (i)  The board may determine when to grant a full or partial waiver of the
nonresident differential in tuition rates charged to undergraduate students
pursuant to reciprocal agreements with other states.
(ii)  In making the determination described under Subsection (1)(a)(i), the
board shall consider the potential of the waiver to:
(A)  enhance educational opportunities for Utah residents;
(B)  promote mutually beneficial cooperation and development of Utah
communities and nearby communities in neighboring states;
(C)  contribute to the quality of educational programs; and
(D)  assist in maintaining the cost effectiveness of auxiliary operations in
Utah institutions of higher education.
(b) (i)  Consistent with its determinations made pursuant to Subsection
(1)(a), the board may enter into agreements with other states to provide for a
full or partial reciprocal waiver of the nonresident tuition differential
charged to undergraduate students.
(ii)  An agreement shall provide for the numbers and identifying criteria of
undergraduate students, and shall specify the institutions of higher education
that will be affected by the agreement.
(c)  The board shall establish policy guidelines for the administration by the
affected Utah institutions of any tuition waivers authorized under this
section, for evaluating applicants for such waivers, and for reporting the
results of the reciprocal waiver programs authorized by this section.
(d)  A report and financial analysis of any waivers of tuition authorized
under this section shall be submitted annually to the general session of the
Legislature as part of the budget recommendations of the board for the system
of higher education.
(2) (a)  Dixie State College of Utah may offer a good neighbor full waiver of
the nonresident differential in tuition rates charged to undergraduate
students:
(i)  pursuant to reciprocal agreements with other states; or
(ii)  to a resident of a county that has a portion of the county located
within 70 miles of the main campus of Dixie State College of Utah.
(b) (i)  A student who attends Dixie State College of Utah under a good
neighbor tuition waiver shall pay a surcharge per credit hour in addition to
the regular resident tuition and fees of Dixie State College of Utah.
(ii)  The surcharge per credit hour shall be based on a percentage of the
approved resident tuition per credit hour each academic year.
(iii)  The percentage assessed as a surcharge per credit hour may not be less
than 70% of resident tuition per credit hour.
(c)  Dixie State College of Utah may restrict the number of good neighbor
tuition waivers awarded.
(d)  A student who attends Dixie State College of Utah on a good neighbor
tuition waiver may not count the time during which the waiver is received
towards establishing resident student status in Utah.
