53B-8-105.   New Century scholarships -- High school requirements.

(1)  As used in this section, "complete the requirements for an associate degree" means that a student:

(a) (i)  completes all the required courses for an associate degree from a higher education institution within the state system of higher education that offers associate degrees; and

(ii)  applies for the associate degree from the institution; or

(b)  completes equivalent requirements described in Subsection (1)(a)(i) from a higher education institution within the state system of higher education that offers baccalaureate degrees but does not offer associate degrees.

(2) (a)  The board shall award New Century scholarships.

(b)  The board shall develop and approve the math and science curriculum described under Subsection (3)(a)(ii).

(3) (a)  In order to qualify for a New Century scholarship, a student in Utah schools shall complete the requirements for an:

(i)  associate degree; or

(ii)  approved math and science curriculum.

(b)  The requirements under Subsection (3)(a) shall be completed:

(i) (A)  for a student whose class graduates from high school in 2010 or before, by September 1 of the year the student's class graduates from high school; or

(B)  for a student whose class graduates from high school in 2011 or after, by the day on which the student's class graduates from high school; and

(ii)  with at least a 3.0 grade point average.

(c)  In addition to the requirements in Subsection (3)(a), a student in Utah schools whose class graduates from high school in 2011 or after shall:

(i)  complete the high school graduation requirements of:

(A)  a public high school established by the State Board of Education and the student's school district or charter school; or

(B)  a private high school in the state that is accredited by a regional accrediting body approved by the board; and

(ii)  complete high school with at least a 3.5 cumulative high school grade point average.

(4)  Notwithstanding Subsection (3), for a student who does not receive a high school grade point average, the student shall:

(a)  complete the requirements for an associate degree:

(i) (A)  for a student who completes high school in 2010 or before, by September 1 of the year the student completes high school; or

(B)  for a student who completes high school in 2011 or after, by June 15 of the year the student completes high school; and

(ii)  with at least a 3.0 grade point average; and

(b)  score a composite ACT score of 26 or higher.

(5)  To be eligible for the scholarship, a student:

(a)  shall submit an application to the board with:

(i)  an official college transcript showing college courses the student has completed to complete the requirements for an associate degree; and

(ii) (A)  if applicable, an official high school transcript; or

(B)  if applicable, a copy of the student's ACT scores;

(b)  shall be a citizen of the United States or a noncitizen who is eligible to receive federal student aid;

(c)  may not have a criminal record, with the exception of a misdemeanor traffic citation; and

(d)  if applicable, shall meet the application deadlines as established by the board under Subsection (10).

(6) (a)  The scholarship may be used at a:

(i)  higher education institution within the state system of higher education that offers baccalaureate programs; or

(ii)  private, nonprofit college or university in the state accredited by the Northwest Association of Schools and Colleges that offers baccalaureate programs.

(b)  For a student whose class graduates from high school in 2010 and who completes the requirements under Subsection (3)(a) by September 1, 2010:

(i)  if used at an institution described in Subsection (6)(a)(i), the value of the scholarship is up to 75% of the tuition costs at the selected institution; or

(ii)  if used at an institution described in Subsection (6)(a)(ii), the value of the scholarship is up to 75% of the tuition costs at the institution, not to exceed 75% of the average tuition costs at the institutions referred in Subsection (6)(a)(i).

(c) (i)  For a student whose class graduates in 2011 or after and who completes the requirements under this section, the total value of the scholarship is up to $5,000, allocated over a time period described in Subsection (6)(d), as prescribed by the board.

(ii)  The board may increase the scholarship amount described in Subsection (6)(c)(i) by an amount not to exceed the average percentage tuition increase approved by the board for institutions in the state system of higher education.

(d)  The scholarship is valid for the shortest of the following time periods:

(i)  two years of full-time equivalent enrollment;

(ii)  60 credit hours; or

(iii)  until the student meets the requirements for a baccalaureate degree.

(e) (i)  A scholarship holder shall enroll full-time at a higher education institution by no later than the fall term immediately following the student's high school graduation date or receive an approved deferral from the board.

(ii)  The board may grant a deferral or leave of absence to a scholarship holder, but the student may only receive scholarship money within five years of the student's high school graduation date.

(7)  The board may cancel a New Century scholarship at any time if the student fails to:

(a)  register as a full-time student;

(b)  maintain at least a 3.0 grade point average for two consecutive semesters; or

(c)  make reasonable progress towards the completion of a baccalaureate degree.

(8) (a)  Subject to future budget constraints, the Legislature shall make an annual appropriation from the General Fund to the board for the costs associated with the New Century Scholarship Program authorized under this section.

(b)  It is understood that the appropriation is offset in part by the state money that would otherwise be required and appropriated for these students if they were enrolled in a four-year postsecondary program at a state-operated institution.

(c)  Notwithstanding Subsections (2)(a) and (6), if the appropriation under Subsection (8)(a) is insufficient to cover the costs associated with the New Century Scholarship Program, the board may reduce the scholarship amount.

(9) (a)  The board shall adopt policies establishing an application process and an appeal process for a New Century scholarship.

(b)  The board shall disclose on all applications and related materials that the amount of the scholarship is subject to funding and may be reduced, in accordance with Subsection (8)(c).

(10)  The board may set deadlines for receiving New Century scholarship applications and supporting documentation.

(11)  A student may not receive both a New Century scholarship and a Regents' scholarship established in Section 53B-8-108.

