32B-11-208.   General operational requirements for manufacturing license.

(1) (a)  A manufacturing licensee and staff of the manufacturing licensee shall comply with this title and the rules of the commission, including the relevant part of this chapter applicable to the type of manufacturing license held by the manufacturing licensee.

(b)  Failure to comply as provided in Subsection (1)(a) may result in disciplinary action in accordance with Chapter 3, Disciplinary Actions and Enforcement Act, against:

(i)  a manufacturing licensee;

(ii)  individual staff of a manufacturing licensee; or

(iii)  a manufacturing licensee and staff of the manufacturing licensee.

(2)  A manufacturing licensee shall prominently display the manufacturing license on the licensed premises.

(3) (a)  A manufacturing licensee shall make and maintain the records required by the department.

(b)  Section 32B-1-205 applies to a record required to be made or maintained in accordance with this Subsection (3).

(4)  A manufacturing licensee may not sell liquor within the state except to:

(a)  the department; or

(b)  a military installation.

(5)  A manufacturing license may not be transferred from one location to another location, without prior written approval of the commission.

(6) (a)  A manufacturing licensee may not sell, transfer, assign, exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the license to another person, whether for monetary gain or not.

(b)  A manufacturing license has no monetary value for any type of disposition.

(7)  A manufacturing licensee may not advertise its product in violation of this title or any other federal or state law, except that nothing in this title prohibits the advertising or solicitation of an order for industrial alcohol from a holder of a special use permit.

(8)  A manufacturing licensee shall from time to time, on request of the department, furnish for analytical purposes a sample of the alcoholic product that the manufacturing licensee has:

(a)  for sale; or

(b)  in the course of manufacture for sale in this state.

(9)  The commission may prescribe by policy or rule, consistent with this title, the general operational requirements of a manufacturing licensee relating to:

(a)  physical facilities;

(b)  conditions of storage, sale, or manufacture of an alcoholic product;

(c)  storage and sales quantity limitations; and

(d)  other matters considered appropriate by the commission.



Enacted by Chapter 276, 2010 General Session

