65A-1-3.   Forestry, Fire, and State Lands Advisory Council -- Membership --
Chair -- Terms -- Quorum -- Per diem and expenses -- Duties.
(1) (a)  The Forestry, Fire, and State Lands Advisory Council shall be
composed of 12 members as follows:
(i)  one representative from Rich County;
(ii)  one representative from Utah County;
(iii)  four individuals representing the combination of Box Elder, Davis, Salt
Lake, Tooele, and Weber counties, two of whom shall be representatives of
industries concerned with sovereign lands;
(iv)  one individual representing the combination of Cache, Emery, Garfield,
Grand, Kane, San Juan, and Uintah counties;
(v)  four individuals representing the state at large, one of whom shall be
representative of environmental concerns and one of whom shall be
representative of sporting concerns; and
(vi)  the director of the division.
(b)  The director of the division:
(i)  shall serve as chair; and
(ii)  may not vote except as may be necessary to break a tie vote.
(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), as terms of current council
members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that
approximately half of the council is appointed every two years.
(3)  Seven members of the council constitute a quorum.
(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(5)  Meetings may be called by the chair or by a quorum of the council.
(6)  The council shall meet not less than every six months.
(7) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the council at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(8) (a)  The council shall consider public comment and concern in formulating
advice and counsel for the division.
(b)  Council meetings shall be widely advertised, with affected state agencies
and public and private interests being directly notified of meeting schedules
and agendas.
(9) (a)  The council may provide written recommendations to the director.
(b)  The director shall provide a written explanation of any written council
recommendation the director chooses to disregard.
