11-27-5.   Negotiability of bonds -- Intent and construction of chapter --
Budget for payment of bonds -- Proceedings limited to those required by
chapter -- No election required -- Application of chapter.
(1)  Refunding bonds shall have all the qualities of negotiable paper, shall
be incontestable in the hands of bona fide purchasers or holders for value,
and are not invalid for any irregularity or defect in the proceedings for
their issuance and sale.  This chapter is intended to afford an alternative
method for the issuance of refunding bonds by public bodies and may not be
construed to deprive any public body of the right to issue bonds for refunding
purposes under authority of any other statute, but this chapter, nevertheless,
shall constitute full authority for the issue and sale of refunding bonds by
public bodies.  Section 11-1-1, however, is not applicable to refunding bonds.
(2)  Any public body subject to any budget law shall in its annual budget make
proper provision for the payment of principal and interest currently falling
due on refunding bonds, but no provision need be made in the budget prior to
the issuance of the refunding bonds for their issuance or for the expenditure
of the proceeds from them.
(3) (a)  No ordinance, resolution, or proceeding concerning the issuance of
refunding bonds nor the publication of any resolution, proceeding, or notice
relating to the issuance of the refunding bonds shall be necessary except as
specifically required by this chapter.
(b)  A publication made under this chapter may be made:
(i)  in any newspaper in which legal notices may be published under the laws
of Utah, without regard to its designation as the official journal or
newspaper of the public body; and
(ii)  as required in Section 45-1-101.
(4)  No resolution adopted or proceeding taken under this chapter shall be
subject to any referendum petition or to an election other than as required by
this chapter.  All proceedings adopted under this chapter may be adopted on a
single reading at any legally-convened meeting of the governing body.  This
chapter shall apply to all bonds issued and outstanding at the time this
chapter takes effect as well as to bonds issued after this chapter takes
effect.
