13-44-202.   Personal information -- Disclosure of system security breach.
(1) (a)  A person who owns or licenses computerized data that includes
personal information concerning a Utah resident shall, when the person becomes
aware of a breach of system security, conduct in good faith a reasonable and
prompt investigation to determine the likelihood that personal information has
been or will be misused for identity theft or fraud purposes.
(b)  If an investigation under Subsection (1)(a) reveals that the misuse of
personal information for identity theft or fraud purposes has occurred, or is
reasonably likely to occur, the person shall provide notification to each
affected Utah resident.
(2)  A person required to provide notification under Subsection (1) shall
provide the notification in the most expedient time possible without
unreasonable delay:
(a)  considering legitimate investigative needs of law enforcement, as
provided in Subsection (4)(a);
(b)  after determining the scope of the breach of system security; and
(c)  after restoring the reasonable integrity of the system.
(3) (a)  A person who maintains computerized data that includes personal
information that the person does not own or license shall notify and cooperate
with the owner or licensee of the information of any breach of system security
immediately following the person's discovery of the breach if misuse of the
personal information occurs or is reasonably likely to occur.
(b)  Cooperation under Subsection (3)(a) includes sharing information relevant
to the breach with the owner or licensee of the information.
(4) (a)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2), a person may delay providing
notification under Subsection (1) at the request of a law enforcement agency
that determines that notification may impede a criminal investigation.
(b)  A person who delays providing notification under Subsection (4)(a) shall
provide notification in good faith without unreasonable delay in the most
expedient time possible after the law enforcement agency informs the person
that notification will no longer impede the criminal investigation.
(5) (a)  A notification required by this section may be provided:
(i)  in writing by first-class mail to the most recent address the person has
for the resident;
(ii)  electronically, if the person's primary method of communication with the
resident is by electronic means, or if provided in accordance with the
consumer disclosure provisions of 15 U.S.C. Section 7001;
(iii)  by telephone, including through the use of automatic dialing technology
not prohibited by other law; or
(iv)  by publishing notice of the breach of system security:
(A)  in a newspaper of general circulation; and
(B)  as required in Section 45-1-101.
(b)  If a person maintains the person's own notification procedures as part of
an information security policy for the treatment of personal information the
person is considered to be in compliance with this chapter's notification
requirements if the procedures are otherwise consistent with this chapter's
timing requirements and the person notifies each affected Utah resident in
accordance with the person's information security policy in the event of a
breach.
(c)  A person who is regulated by state or federal law and maintains
procedures for a breach of system security under applicable law established by
the primary state or federal regulator is considered to be in compliance with
this part if the person notifies each affected Utah resident in accordance
with the other applicable law in the event of a breach.
(6)  A waiver of this section is contrary to public policy and is void and
unenforceable.
