70A-8-306.    Effect of guaranteeing signature, indorsement, or instruction.
(1)  A person who guarantees a signature of an indorser of a security
certificate warrants that at the time of signing:
(a)  the signature was genuine;
(b)  the signer was an appropriate person to indorse, or if the signature is
by an agent, the agent had actual authority to act on behalf of the
appropriate person; and
(c)  the signer had legal capacity to sign.
(2)  A person who guarantees a signature of the originator of an instruction
warrants that at the time of signing:
(a)  the signature was genuine;
(b)  the signer was an appropriate person to originate the instruction, or if
the signature is by an agent, the agent had actual authority to act on behalf
of the appropriate person, if the person specified in the instruction as the
registered owner was, in fact, the registered owner, as to which fact the
signature guarantor does not make a warranty; and
(c)  the signer had legal capacity to sign.
(3)  A person who specially guarantees the signature of an originator of an
instruction makes the warranties of a signature guarantor under Subsection (2)
and also warrants that at the time the instruction is presented to the issuer:
(a)  the person specified in the instruction as the registered owner of the
uncertificated security will be the registered owner; and
(b)  the transfer of the uncertificated security requested in the instruction
will be registered by the issuer free from all liens, security interests,
restrictions, and claims other than those specified in the instruction.
(4)  A guarantor under Subsection (1) and (2) or a special guarantor under
Subsection (3) does not otherwise warrant the rightfulness of the transfer.
(5)  A person who guarantees an indorsement of a security certificate makes
the warranties of a signature guarantor under Subsection (1) and also warrants
the rightfulness of the transfer in all respects.
(6)  A person who guarantees an instruction requesting the transfer of an
uncertificated security makes the warranties of a special signature guarantor
under Subsection (3) and also warrants the rightfulness of the transfer in all
respects.
(7)  An issuer may not require a special guaranty of signature, a guaranty of
indorsement, or a guaranty of instruction as a condition to registration of
transfer.
(8)  The warranties under this section are made to a person taking or dealing
with the security in reliance on the guaranty, and the guarantor is liable to
the person for loss resulting from their breach.  An indorser or originator of
an instruction whose signature, indorsement, or instruction has been
guaranteed is liable to a guarantor for any loss suffered by the guarantor as
a result of breach of the warranties of the guarantor.
