58-54-3.   Board created -- Membership -- Duties.
(1)  There is created a Radiology Technologist Licensing Board consisting of
seven members as follows:
(a)  four licensed radiology technologists;
(b)  one licensed radiology practical technician;
(c)  one radiologist; and
(d)  one member from the general public.
(2)  The board shall be appointed in accordance with Section 58-1-201.
(3)  The duties and responsibilities of the board shall be in accordance with
Sections 58-1-202 and 58-1-203.
(4)  In accordance with Subsection 58-1-203(6), there is established an
advisory peer committee to the board consisting of eight members broadly
representative of the state and including:
(a)  one licensed physician and surgeon who is not a radiologist and who uses
radiology equipment in a rural office-based practice, appointed from among
recommendations of the Physicians Licensing Board;
(b)  one licensed physician and surgeon who is not a radiologist and who uses
radiology equipment in an urban office-based practice, appointed from among
recommendations of the Physicians Licensing Board;
(c)  one licensed physician and surgeon who is a radiologist practicing in
radiology, appointed from among recommendations of the Physicians Licensing
Board;
(d)  one licensed osteopathic physician, appointed from among recommendations
of the Osteopathic Physicians Licensing Board;
(e)  one licensed chiropractic physician, appointed from among recommendations
of the Chiropractors Licensing Board;
(f)  one licensed podiatric physician, appointed from among recommendations of
the  Podiatric Physician Board;
(g)  one representative of the state agency with primary responsibility for
regulation of sources of radiation, recommended by that agency; and
(h)  one representative of a general acute hospital, as defined in Section
26-21-2, that is located in a rural area of the state.
(5) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (b), members of the advisory peer
committee shall be appointed to four-year terms by the director in
collaboration with the board from among the recommendations.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (a), the director shall,
at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to
ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that approximately
half of the committee is appointed every two years.
(c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(7)  The duties, responsibilities, and scope of authority of the advisory peer
committee are:
(a)  to advise the board with respect to the board's fulfillment of its
duties, functions, and responsibilities under Sections 58-1-202 and 58-1-203;
and
(b)  to advise the division with respect to the examination the division is to
adopt by rule, by which a radiology practical technician may qualify for
licensure under Section 58-54-5.
