58-54-102.   Definitions.

In addition to the definition in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:

(1)  "Board" means the Radiologic Technologist Licensing Board established under this chapter.

(2)  "Critical access hospital" means a hospital in a rural or medically underserved area that is recognized by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services as meeting the conditions of participation specified in 42 C.F.R. 485.601-647.

(3)  "General supervision" means the supervising radiologist is available to provide immediate communication with the supervised person and is aware of the procedure before it is performed.

(4)  "Indirect supervision" means the supervising radiologist:

(a)  has given either written or verbal instructions to the person being supervised;

(b)  is present in the facility in which the person being supervised is providing services; and

(c)  is available to provide immediate face-to-face communications with the person being supervised.

(5)  "Practice of radiologic technology" means using radiation from a radioactive substance, radiology equipment, or any other source, in amounts beyond normal background levels, for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes on humans.

(6)  "Practice of radiologist assistant" means the performance of non-invasive and minimally invasive radiological procedures:

(a)  delegated to a radiologist assistant by a radiologist; and

(b)  performed under the indirect supervision of a radiologist.

(7)  "Radiologic technologist" means a person licensed under this chapter to engage in the practice of radiologic technology under the general supervision of a radiologist or radiology practitioner including the administration of parenteral contrast media, radionuclides, and other medications incidental to radiology procedures provided the administrations are under the direct supervision of a qualified physician and the technologist is currently certified in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and appropriate patient care procedures.

(8)  "Radiologist" means a physician certified by the American Board of Radiology, the American Osteopathic Board of Radiology, the British Royal College of Radiology, or the Canadian College of Physicians and Surgeons.

(9)  "Radiologist assistant" means a person licensed under this chapter to engage in the practice of a radiologist assistant.

(10)  "Radiology equipment" means any medical radiation device that emits ionizing or nonionizing radiation or detects that radiation for the purpose or intended purpose of:

(a)  diagnosing disease or other medical conditions in humans; or

(b)  treating, curing, mitigating, or preventing disease in humans.

(11)  "Radiology practical technician" means a person licensed under this chapter to engage in a practice of radiologic technology performing limited diagnostic radiology procedures:

(a)  as defined and permitted by rule in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act; and

(b)  under the supervision of a radiologist or radiology practitioner.

(12)  "Radiology practitioner" means any person or individual licensed in this state as a physician and surgeon, osteopathic physician, podiatric physician, chiropractic physician, dentist, dental hygienist, or a physician's assistant, nurse practitioner, or nurse specialist practicing under the supervision of an approved supervising physician and in accordance with an approved protocol and utilization plan.

(13)  "Unlawful conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-54-501.

(14)  "Unprofessional conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-54-501 and as may be further defined by administrative rule adopted by the division.



Amended by Chapter 387, 2013 General Session

