58-54-201.   Board created -- Membership -- Duties.

(1)  There is created a Radiologic Technologist Licensing Board consisting of nine members as follows:

(a)  three licensed radiologic technologists;

(b)  one licensed radiology practical technician;

(c)  one licensed radiologist assistant;

(d)  two radiologists;

(e)  one physician licensed under this title who is not a radiologist, and who uses radiologic services in the physician's practice; and

(f)  one member from the general public.

(2)  The board shall be appointed in accordance with Section 58-1-201.

(3)  The duties and responsibilities of the board shall be in accordance with Sections 58-1-202 and 58-1-203.

(4)  In accordance with Subsection 58-1-203(1)(f), there is established an advisory peer committee to the board consisting of eight members broadly representative of the state and including:

(a)  one licensed physician and surgeon who is not a radiologist and who uses radiology equipment in a rural office-based practice, appointed from among recommendations of the Physicians Licensing Board;

(b)  one licensed physician and surgeon who is not a radiologist and who uses radiology equipment in an urban office-based practice, appointed from among recommendations of the Physicians Licensing Board;

(c)  one licensed physician and surgeon who is a radiologist practicing in radiology, appointed from among recommendations of the Physicians Licensing Board;

(d)  one licensed osteopathic physician, appointed from among recommendations of the Osteopathic Physicians Licensing Board;

(e)  one licensed chiropractic physician, appointed from among recommendations of the Chiropractors Licensing Board;

(f)  one licensed podiatric physician, appointed from among recommendations of the Podiatric Physician Board;

(g)  one representative of the state agency with primary responsibility for regulation of sources of radiation, recommended by that agency; and

(h)  one representative of a general acute hospital, as defined in Section 26-21-2, that is located in a rural area of the state.

(5) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (5)(b), members of the advisory peer committee shall be appointed to four-year terms by the director in collaboration with the board from among the recommendations.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (5)(a), the director shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.

(c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(6)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(7)  The duties, responsibilities, and scope of authority of the advisory peer committee are:

(a)  to advise the board with respect to the board's fulfillment of its duties, functions, and responsibilities under Sections 58-1-202 and 58-1-203; and

(b)  to advise the division with respect to the examination the division is to adopt by rule, by which a radiology practical technician may qualify for licensure under Section 58-54-302.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 61, 2011 General Session

