41-12a-501.   Post-accident security.
(1) (a)  Unless excepted under Subsection (2), the operator of a motor vehicle
involved in an accident in the state and any owner who has not previously
satisfied the requirement of security under Section 41-12a-301 shall file
post-accident security with the department for the benefit of persons
obtaining judgments against the operator on account of bodily injury, death,
or property damage caused by the accident.
(b)  The security shall be in an amount determined by the department to be
sufficient to satisfy judgments arising from bodily injury, death, or property
damage resulting from the accident that may be recovered against the operator,
but may not exceed the minimum single limit under Subsection 31A-22-304(2).
(c)  The department shall determine the amount of post-accident security on
the basis of reports and other evidence submitted to the department by
interested parties, including officials investigating the accident.
(d)  In setting the amount of post-accident security, the department may not
take into account alleged damages resulting from pain and suffering.
(e)  Persons who fail to file required post-accident security are subject to
the penalties under Subsection (3).
(2)  The operator is exempted from the post-accident requirement under
Subsection (1) if any of the following conditions are satisfied:
(a)  No bodily injury, death, or damage to the property of one person in
excess of the damage limit specified under Section 41-6a-401 resulted from the
accident.
(b)  No injury, death, or property damage was suffered by any person other
than the owner or operator.
(c)  The owner of the motor vehicle was in compliance with the owner's
security requirement under Section 41-12a-301 at the time of the accident and
the operator had permission from the owner to operate the motor vehicle.
(d)  The operator was in compliance with the operator's security requirement
under Section 41-12a-301 at the time of the accident.
(e)  The operator has filed satisfactory evidence with the department that the
operator has been released from liability, has been finally adjudicated not to
be liable, or has executed a duly acknowledged written agreement providing for
the payment of an agreed amount in installments with respect to all claims for
injuries or damages resulting from the accident and is not in default on that
agreement.
(f)  The motor vehicle involved in the accident was operated by a nonresident
who had an insurance policy or bond covering the accident, but not fully
complying with the policy provision requirements under Section 31A-22-302, if
the policy or bond is sufficient to provide full recovery for claimants and
the policy or bond is issued by an insurer licensed in the state.
(g)  The operator at the time of the accident was operating a motor vehicle
owned or leased by the operator's employer and driven with the employer's
permission.
(h)  Evidence as to the extent of injuries or property damage caused by the
accident has not been submitted by or on behalf of any person affected by the
accident within six months following the date of the accident.
(i)  The motor vehicle was legally parked at the time of the accident.
(j)  The motor vehicle was an emergency vehicle acting in the line of duty at
the time of the accident.
(k)  The motor vehicle involved in the accident is owned by the United States,
this state, or any political subdivision of this state, if the operator was
using the vehicle with the permission of the owner.
(l)  The motor vehicle was legally stopped at a stop sign, traffic signal, or
at the direction of a peace officer at the time of the accident.
(3) (a)  If an operator who is required to file post-accident security under
Subsection (1) does not do so within ten days after receiving notice of the
requirement of security, the department shall suspend the driver's license of
the operator and all registrations of the owner, if he is a resident of the
state.
(b)  If the operator is not a resident of Utah, the department shall suspend
the privilege of operating a motor vehicle within the state and of using, in
the state, any owned motor vehicle.
(c)  Notice of these suspensions shall be sent to the owner or operator no
less than 15 days prior to the effective date of the suspension.
