41-12a-804.   Notice -- Proof -- Revocation of registration -- False statements -- Penalties -- Exemptions -- Sales tax enforcement.

(1)  If the comparison under Section 41-12a-803 shows that a motor vehicle is not insured for three consecutive months, the Motor Vehicle Division shall direct that the designated agent provide notice to the owner of the motor vehicle that the owner has 15 days to provide:

(a)  proof of owner's or operator's security in a form allowed under Subsection 41-12a-303.2(2)(b); or

(b)  proof of exemption from the owner's or operator's security requirements.

(2)  If an owner of a motor vehicle fails to provide satisfactory proof of owner's or operator's security to the designated agent, the designated agent shall:

(a)  provide a second notice to the owner of the motor vehicle that the owner now has 15 days to provide:

(i)  proof of owner's or operator's security in a form allowed under Subsection 41-12a-303.2(2)(b); or

(ii)  proof of exemption from the owner's or operator's security requirements;

(b)  for each notice provided, indicate information relating to the owner's failure to provide proof of owner's or operator's security in the database; and

(c)  provide this information to state and local law enforcement agencies as requested in accordance with the provisions under Section 41-12a-805.

(3)  The Motor Vehicle Division:

(a)  shall revoke the registration upon receiving notification under Subsection 41-1a-110(2);

(b)  shall provide appropriate notices of the revocation, the legal consequences of operating a vehicle with revoked registration and without owner's or operator's security and instructions on how to get the registration reinstated; and

(c)  may direct the designated agent to provide the notices under this Subsection (3).

(4)  Any action by the Motor Vehicle Division to revoke the registration of a motor vehicle under this section may be in addition to an action by a law enforcement agency to impose the penalties under Section 41-12a-302 or 41-12a-303.2.

(5) (a)  A person may not provide a false or fraudulent statement to the Motor Vehicle Division or designated agent.

(b)  In addition to any other penalties, a person who violates Subsection (5)(a) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

(6)  The department and the Motor Vehicle Division shall direct the designated agent to exempt from this section a farm truck that:

(a)  meets the definition of a farm truck under Section 41-1a-102; and

(b)  is registered as a farm truck under Title 41, Chapter 1a, Motor Vehicle Act.

(7)  This part does not affect other actions or penalties that may be taken or imposed for violation of the owner's and operator's security requirements of this chapter.

(8)  If a comparison under Section 41-12a-803 shows that a motor vehicle may not be in compliance with motor vehicle registration or sales and use tax laws, the Motor Vehicle Division may direct that the designated agent provide notice to the owner of a motor vehicle that information exists which indicates the possible violation.



Amended by Chapter 260, 2010 General Session

