13-35-304.   Hearing regarding termination, relocation, or establishment of
franchises.
(1) (a)  Within 10 days of receiving an application from a franchisee under
Subsection 13-35-301(3) challenging its franchisor's right to terminate or not
continue a franchise, or an application under Subsection 13-35-302(1)
challenging the establishment or relocation of a franchise, the executive
director shall:
(i)  enter an order designating the time and place for the hearing; and
(ii)  send a copy of the order by certified or registered mail, with return
receipt requested, or by any form of reliable delivery through which receipt
is verifiable to:
(A)  the applicant;
(B)  the franchisor; and
(C)  if the application involves the establishment of a new franchise or the
relocation of an existing dealership, to all franchisees in the relevant
market area engaged in the business of offering to sell or lease the same
line-make.
(b)  A copy of an order mailed under Subsection (1)(a) shall be addressed to
the franchisee at the place where the franchisee's business is conducted.
(2)  Any person who can establish an interest in the application may intervene
as a party to the hearing, whether or not that person receives notice.
(3)  Any person may appear and testify on the question of the public interest
in the termination or noncontinuation of a franchise or in the establishment
of an additional franchise.
(4) (a) (i)  Any hearing ordered under Subsection (1) shall be conducted no
later than 120 days after the application for hearing is filed.
(ii)  A final decision on the challenge shall be made by the executive
director no later than 30 days after the hearing.
(b)  Failure to comply with the time requirements of Subsection (4)(a) is
considered a determination that the franchisor acted with good cause or, in
the case of a protest of a proposed establishment or relocation of a dealer,
that good cause exists for permitting the proposed additional or relocated new
motor vehicle dealer, unless:
(i)  the delay is caused by acts of the franchisor or the additional or
relocating franchisee; or
(ii)  the delay is waived by the parties.
(5)  The franchisor has the burden of proof to establish that under this
chapter it should be granted permission to:
(a)  terminate or not continue the franchise;
(b)  enter into a franchise agreement establishing an additional franchise; or
(c)  relocate the dealership of an existing franchisee.
