4-17-3.5.   Creation of State Weed Committee -- Membership -- Powers and
duties -- Expenses.
(1)  There is created a State Weed Committee composed of five members, one
member representing each of the following:
(a)  the Department of Agriculture and Food;
(b)  the Utah State University Agricultural Experiment Station;
(c)  the Utah State University Extension Service;
(d)  the Utah Association of Counties; and
(e)  private agricultural industry.
(2)  The commissioner shall select the members of the committee from those
nominated by each of the respective groups or agencies following approval by
the Agricultural Advisory Board.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (b), as terms of current committee
members expire, the commissioner shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (a), the commissioner
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that
approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.
(4) (a)  Members may be removed by the commissioner for cause.
(b)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(5)  The State Weed Committee shall:
(a)  confer and advise on matters pertaining to the planning, implementation,
and administration of the state noxious weed program;
(b)  recommend names for membership on the committee; and
(c)  serve as members of the executive committee of the Utah Weed Control
Association.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Higher education members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties from
the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Higher education members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(d) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
