9-3-403.   Creation -- Members -- Chair -- Powers -- Quorum -- Per diem and
expenses.
(1)  There is created an independent state agency and a body politic and
corporate known as the "Utah Science Center Authority."
(2) (a)  The authority shall be composed of 13 members.
(b)  The governor shall appoint:
(i)  three members representing the informal science and arts community that
could include members from the board of directors of the Hansen Planetarium,
the Hogle Zoo, the Children's Museum of Utah, the Utah Museum of Natural
History, and other related museums, centers, and agencies;
(ii)  one member of the State Board of Education;
(iii)  one member of the Division of Housing and Community Development of the
Department of Community and Culture;
(iv)  one member of the Board of Tourism Development;
(v)  one member of the State Board of Regents; and
(vi)  three public members representing Utah industry, the diverse regions of
the state, and the public at large.
(c)  The county legislative body of Salt Lake County shall appoint one member
to represent Salt Lake County.
(d)  The mayor of Salt Lake City shall appoint one member to represent Salt
Lake City Corporation.
(e)  The State Science Advisor or the advisor's designee is also a member of
the authority.
(f)  In appointing the three public members, the governor shall ensure that
there is representation from the science, technology, and business
communities.
(3)  All members shall be residents of Utah.
(4)  Each member shall be appointed for four-year terms beginning July 1 of
the year appointed.
(5) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (5)(b), as terms of current
authority members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or
reappointed member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (5)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of authority members are staggered so that
approximately half of the authority is appointed every two years.
(6)  A member may be removed from office by the governor or for cause by an
affirmative vote of nine members of the authority.
(7)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed by the governor for the unexpired term.
(8)  Each public member shall hold office for the term of his appointment and
until the member's successor has been appointed and qualified.
(9)  A public member is eligible for reappointment, but may not serve more
than two full consecutive terms.
(10)  The governor shall appoint the chair of the authority from among its
members.
(11)  The members shall elect from among their number a vice chair and other
officers they may determine.
(12)  The chair and vice chair shall be elected for two-year terms.
(13)  The powers of the authority shall be vested in its members.
(14)  Seven members constitute a quorum for transaction of authority business.
(15) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the authority at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(d) (i)  Higher education members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties from
the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Higher education members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
