9-3-502.   Creation -- Members -- Chair -- Powers -- Quorum -- Per diem and
expenses.
(1)  There is created an independent state agency and a body politic and
corporate known as the "Heber Valley Historic Railroad Authority."
(2)  The authority shall be composed of eight members as follows:
(a)  one member of the county legislative body of Wasatch County;
(b)  the mayor of Heber City;
(c)  the mayor of Midway;
(d)  the executive director of the Department of Transportation or the
executive director's designee;
(e)  the executive director of Parks and Recreation, or the executive
director's designee;
(f)  three public members appointed by the governor with the consent of the
Senate, being private citizens of the state, as follows:
(i)  two people representing the tourism industry, one each from Wasatch and
Utah counties; and
(ii)  one person representing the public at large.
(3)  All members shall be residents of the state.
(4) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (4)(b), the three public members
shall be appointed for four-year terms beginning July 1, 2010.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (4)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of authority members are staggered so that
approximately half of the authority is appointed every two years.
(5)  Any of the three public members may be removed from office by the
governor or for cause by an affirmative vote of any four members of the
authority.
(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term by the governor with consent of the
Senate for the unexpired term.
(7)  Each public member shall hold office for the term of appointment and
until a successor has been appointed and qualified.
(8)  Any public member is eligible for reappointment, but may not serve more
than two full consecutive terms.
(9)  The governor shall appoint the chair of the authority from among its
members.
(10)  The members shall elect from among their number a vice chair and other
officers they may determine.
(11)  The powers of the authority shall be vested in its members.
(12)  Four members constitute a quorum for transaction of authority business.
An affirmative vote of at least four members is necessary for any action to be
taken by the authority.
(13) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the authority at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
