9-3-602.   Creation -- Members -- Chair -- Powers -- Quorum -- Per diem and expenses.

(1)  There is created an independent body politic and corporate known as the "Utah State Railroad Museum Authority," hereafter referred to in this part as "the authority."

(2)  The authority is composed of 11 members as follows:

(a)  one member of the county legislative body of Weber County appointed by that legislative body;

(b)  two members of the county legislative body of Box Elder County appointed by that legislative body;

(c)  the executive director of the Department of Transportation or the director's designee; and

(d)  seven public members appointed by the governor, as follows:

(i)  two individuals representing the tourism industry, one each from Weber and Box Elder Counties;

(ii)  one individual representing the public at large; and

(iii)  four individuals representing railroad historic and heritage preservation organizations active in Weber and Box Elder Counties, as follows:

(A)  one individual representing the Railroad and Locomotive Historical Society Golden Spike Chapter;

(B)  one individual representing the Golden Spike Heritage Foundation;

(C)  one individual representing the Golden Spike Association; and

(D)  one individual representing the Corinne Historical Society.

(3)  All members shall be residents of the state.

(4) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (4)(b), the governor shall appoint the seven public members for four-year terms beginning July 1.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (4)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of authority members appointed under Subsection (2)(d) are staggered so that approximately one-half of the seven public members are appointed every two years.

(5)  Any of the seven public members may be removed from office by the governor or for cause by an affirmative vote of six members of the authority.

(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the public membership for any reason, the governor shall appoint a replacement for the unexpired term.

(7)  Each public member shall hold office for the term of the member's appointment and until a successor has been appointed and qualified.

(8)  A public member is eligible for reappointment, but may not serve more than two full consecutive terms.

(9)  The governor shall appoint the chair of the authority from among its members.

(10) (a)  The members shall elect from among their membership a vice chair and other officers as they may determine.

(b)  The officers serve as the executive committee for the authority.

(11)  The powers of the authority are vested in its members.

(12) (a)  Six members constitute a quorum for transaction of authority business.

(b)   An affirmative vote of at least six members is necessary for an action to be taken by the authority.

(13) (a)  A member who is not a government employee receives no compensation or benefits for the member's services, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official duties at rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(b)  A state government officer or employee member who does not receive salary, per diem, or expenses from the member's agency for the member's service may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of official duties from the authority at rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(c)  A local government member who does not receive salary, per diem, or expenses for the member's service from the entity that the member represents may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official duties at rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(d)  A member may decline to receive per diem and expenses for the member's services.

