58-37-2 (Superseded 07/01/11).   Definitions.

(1)  As used in this chapter:

(a)  "Administer" means the direct application of a controlled substance, whether by injection, inhalation, ingestion, or any other means, to the body of a patient or research subject by:

(i)  a practitioner or, in the practitioner's presence, by the practitioner's authorized agent; or

(ii)  the patient or research subject at the direction and in the presence of the practitioner.

(b)  "Agent" means an authorized person who acts on behalf of or at the direction of a manufacturer, distributor, or practitioner but does not include a motor carrier, public warehouseman, or employee of any of them.

(c)  "Consumption" means ingesting or having any measurable amount of a controlled substance in a person's body, but this Subsection (1)(c) does not include the metabolite of a controlled substance.

(d)  "Continuing criminal enterprise" means any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, business trust, association, or other legal entity, and any union or groups of individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity, and includes illicit as well as licit entities created or maintained for the purpose of engaging in conduct which constitutes the commission of episodes of activity made unlawful by Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 37a, Utah Drug Paraphernalia Act, Chapter 37b, Imitation Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 37c, Utah Controlled Substance Precursor Act, or Chapter 37d, Clandestine Drug Lab Act, which episodes are not isolated, but have the same or similar purposes, results, participants, victims, methods of commission, or otherwise are interrelated by distinguishing characteristics.  Taken together, the episodes shall demonstrate continuing unlawful conduct and be related either to each other or to the enterprise.

(e)  "Control" means to add, remove, or change the placement of a drug, substance, or immediate precursor under Section 58-37-3.

(f) (i)  "Controlled substance" means a drug or substance:

(A)  included in Schedules I, II, III, IV, or V of Section 58-37-4;

(B)  included in Schedules I, II, III, IV, or V of the federal Controlled Substances Act, Title II, P.L. 91-513; or

(C)  that is a controlled substance analog.

(ii)  "Controlled substance" does not include:

(A)  distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages, as those terms are defined in Title 32A, Alcoholic Beverage Control Act;

(B)  any drug intended for lawful use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in human or other animals, which contains ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, norpseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine if the drug is lawfully purchased, sold, transferred, or furnished as an over-the-counter medication without prescription; or

(C)  dietary supplements, vitamins, minerals, herbs, or other similar substances including concentrates or extracts, which:

(I)  are not otherwise regulated by law; and

(II)  may contain naturally occurring amounts of chemical or substances listed in this chapter, or in rules adopted pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.

(g) (i)  "Controlled substance analog" means a substance the chemical structure of which is substantially similar to the chemical structure of a controlled substance listed in Schedules I and II of Section 58-37-4, or in Schedules I and II of the federal Controlled Substances Act, Title II, P.L. 91-513:

(A)  which has a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system substantially similar to the stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system of controlled substances in the schedules set forth in Subsection (1)(f); or

(B)  which, with respect to a particular individual, is represented or intended to have a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system substantially similar to the stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system of controlled substances in the schedules set forth in this Subsection (1).

(ii)  "Controlled substance analog" does not include:

(A)  a controlled substance currently scheduled in Schedules I through V of Section 58-37-4;

(B)  a substance for which there is an approved new drug application;

(C)  a substance with respect to which an exemption is in effect for investigational use by a particular person under Section 505 of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 355, to the extent the conduct with respect to the substance is permitted by the exemption;

(D)  any substance to the extent not intended for human consumption before an exemption takes effect with respect to the substance;

(E)  any drug intended for lawful use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in man or other animals, which contains ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, norpseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine if the drug is lawfully purchased, sold, transferred, or furnished as an over-the-counter medication without prescription; or

(F)  dietary supplements, vitamins, minerals, herbs, or other similar substances including concentrates or extracts, which are not otherwise regulated by law, which may contain naturally occurring amounts of chemical or substances listed in this chapter, or in rules adopted pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.

(h)  "Conviction" means a determination of guilt by verdict, whether jury or bench, or plea, whether guilty or no contest, for any offense proscribed by Title 58, Chapters 37, 37a, 37b, 37c, or 37d, or for any offense under the laws of the United States and any other state which, if committed in this state, would be an offense under Title 58, Chapters 37, 37a, 37b, 37c, or 37d.

(i)  "Counterfeit substance" means:

(i)  any controlled substance or container or labeling of any controlled substance that:

(A)  without authorization bears the trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark, imprint, number, device, or any likeness of them, of a manufacturer, distributor, or dispenser other than the person or persons who in fact manufactured, distributed, or dispensed the substance which falsely purports to be a controlled substance distributed by any other manufacturer, distributor, or dispenser; and

(B)  a reasonable person would believe to be a controlled substance distributed by an authorized manufacturer, distributor, or dispenser based on the appearance of the substance as described under Subsection (1)(i)(i)(A) or the appearance of the container of that controlled substance; or

(ii)  any substance other than under Subsection (1)(i)(i) that:

(A)  is falsely represented to be any legally or illegally manufactured controlled substance; and

(B)  a reasonable person would believe to be a legal or illegal controlled substance.

(j)  "Deliver" or "delivery" means the actual, constructive, or attempted transfer of a controlled substance or a listed chemical, whether or not an agency relationship exists.

(k)  "Department" means the Department of Commerce.

(l)  "Depressant or stimulant substance" means:

(i)  a drug which contains any quantity of barbituric acid or any of the salts of barbituric acid;

(ii)  a drug which contains any quantity of:

(A)  amphetamine or any of its optical isomers;

(B)  any salt of amphetamine or any salt of an optical isomer of amphetamine; or

(C)  any substance which the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Attorney General of the United States after investigation has found and by regulation designated habit-forming because of its stimulant effect on the central nervous system;

(iii)  lysergic acid diethylamide; or

(iv)  any drug which contains any quantity of a substance which the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Attorney General of the United States after investigation has found to have, and by regulation designated as having, a potential for abuse because of its depressant or stimulant effect on the central nervous system or its hallucinogenic effect.

(m)  "Dispense" means the delivery of a controlled substance by a pharmacist to an ultimate user pursuant to the lawful order or prescription of a practitioner, and includes distributing to, leaving with, giving away, or disposing of that substance as well as the packaging, labeling, or compounding necessary to prepare the substance for delivery.

(n)  "Dispenser" means a pharmacist who dispenses a controlled substance.

(o)  "Distribute" means to deliver other than by administering or dispensing a controlled substance or a listed chemical.

(p)  "Distributor" means a person who distributes controlled substances.

(q)  "Division" means the Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing created in Section 58-1-103.

(r) (i)  "Drug" means:

(A)  a substance recognized in the official United States Pharmacopoeia, Official Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States, or Official National Formulary, or any supplement to any of them, intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in humans or animals;

(B)  a substance that is required by any applicable federal or state law or rule to be dispensed by prescription only or is restricted to administration by practitioners only;

(C)  a substance other than food intended to affect the structure or any function of the body of humans or other animals; and

(D)  substances intended for use as a component of any substance specified in Subsections (1)(r)(i)(A), (B), (C), and (D).

(ii)  "Drug" does not include dietary supplements.

(s)  "Drug dependent person" means any individual who unlawfully and habitually uses any controlled substance to endanger the public morals, health, safety, or welfare, or who is so dependent upon the use of controlled substances as to have lost the power of self-control with reference to the individual's dependency.

(t)  "Food" means:

(i)  any nutrient or substance of plant, mineral, or animal origin other than a drug as specified in this chapter, and normally ingested by human beings; and

(ii)  foods for special dietary uses as exist by reason of a physical, physiological, pathological, or other condition including but not limited to the conditions of disease, convalescence, pregnancy, lactation, allergy, hypersensitivity to food, underweight, and overweight; uses for supplying a particular dietary need which exist by reason of age including but not limited to the ages of infancy and childbirth, and also uses for supplementing and for fortifying the ordinary or unusual diet with any vitamin, mineral, or other dietary property for use of a food.  Any particular use of a food is a special dietary use regardless of the nutritional purposes.

(u)  "Immediate precursor" means a substance which the Attorney General of the United States has found to be, and by regulation designated as being, the principal compound used or produced primarily for use in the manufacture of a controlled substance, or which is an immediate chemical intermediary used or likely to be used in the manufacture of a controlled substance, the control of which is necessary to prevent, curtail, or limit the manufacture of the controlled substance.

(v)  "Indian" means a member of an Indian tribe.

(w)  "Indian religion" means any religion:

(i)  the origin and interpretation of which is from within a traditional Indian culture or community; and

(ii)  which is practiced by Indians.

(x)  "Indian tribe" means any tribe, band, nation, pueblo, or other organized group or community of Indians, including any Alaska Native village, which is legally recognized as eligible for and is consistent with the special programs, services, and entitlements provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.

(y)  "Manufacture" means the production, preparation, propagation, compounding, or processing of a controlled substance, either directly or indirectly by extraction from substances of natural origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis.

(z)  "Manufacturer" includes any person who packages, repackages, or labels any container of any controlled substance, except pharmacists who dispense or compound prescription orders for delivery to the ultimate consumer.

(aa)  "Marijuana" means all species of the genus cannabis and all parts of the genus, whether growing or not; the seeds of it; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin.  The term does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks, except the resin extracted from them, fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.  Any synthetic equivalents of the substances contained in the plant cannabis sativa or any other species of the genus cannabis which are chemically indistinguishable and pharmacologically active are also included.

(bb)  "Money" means officially issued coin and currency of the United States or any foreign country.

(cc)  "Narcotic drug" means any of the following, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction from substances of vegetable origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis:

(i)  opium, coca leaves, and opiates;

(ii)  a compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, or preparation of opium, coca leaves, or opiates;

(iii)  opium poppy and poppy straw; or

(iv)  a substance, and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, or preparation of the substance, which is chemically identical with any of the substances referred to in Subsection (1)(cc)(i), (ii), or (iii), except narcotic drug does not include decocainized coca leaves or extracts of coca leaves which do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.

(dd)  "Negotiable instrument" means documents, containing an unconditional promise to pay a sum of money, which are legally transferable to another party by endorsement or delivery.

(ee)  "Opiate" means any drug or other substance having an addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability similar to morphine or being capable of conversion into a drug having addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability.

(ff)  "Opium poppy" means the plant of the species papaver somniferum L., except the seeds of the plant.

(gg)  "Person" means any corporation, association, partnership, trust, other institution or entity or one or more individuals.

(hh)  "Poppy straw" means all parts, except the seeds, of the opium poppy, after mowing.

(ii)  "Possession" or "use" means the joint or individual ownership, control, occupancy, holding, retaining, belonging, maintaining, or the application, inhalation, swallowing, injection, or consumption, as distinguished from distribution, of controlled substances and includes individual, joint, or group possession or use of controlled substances.  For a person to be a possessor or user of a controlled substance, it is not required that the person be shown to have individually possessed, used, or controlled the substance, but it is sufficient if it is shown that the person jointly participated with one or more persons in the use, possession, or control of any substances with knowledge that the activity was occurring, or the controlled substance is found in a place or under circumstances indicating that the person had the ability and the intent to exercise dominion and control over it.

(jj)  "Practitioner" means a physician, dentist, naturopathic physician, veterinarian, pharmacist, scientific investigator, pharmacy, hospital, or other person licensed, registered, or otherwise permitted to distribute, dispense, conduct research with respect to, administer, or use in teaching or chemical analysis a controlled substance in the course of professional practice or research in this state.

(kk)  "Prescribe" means to issue a prescription:

(i)  orally or in writing; or

(ii)  by telephone, facsimile transmission, computer, or other electronic means of communication as defined by division rule.

(ll)  "Prescription" means an order issued:

(i)  by a licensed practitioner, in the course of that practitioner's professional practice or by collaborative pharmacy practice agreement; and

(ii)  for a controlled substance or other prescription drug or device for use by a patient or an animal. 

(mm)  "Production" means the manufacture, planting, cultivation, growing, or harvesting of a controlled substance.

(nn)  "Securities" means any stocks, bonds, notes, or other evidences of debt or of property.

(oo)  "State" means the state of Utah.

(pp)  "Ultimate user" means any person who lawfully possesses a controlled substance for the person's own use, for the use of a member of the person's household, or for administration to an animal owned by the person or a member of the person's household.

(2)  If a term used in this chapter is not defined, the definition and terms of Title 76, Utah Criminal Code, shall apply.

