58-37-6.5.   Continuing education for controlled substance prescribers.

(1)  For the purposes of this section:

(a)  "Controlled substance prescriber" means an individual, other than a veterinarian, who:

(i)  is licensed to prescribe a controlled substance under Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act; and

(ii)  possesses the authority, in accordance with the individual's scope of practice, to prescribe schedule II controlled substances and schedule III controlled substances that are applicable to opioid narcotics, hypnotic depressants, or psychostimulants.

(b)  "FDA" means the United States Food and Drug Administration.

(c)  "M.D." means a physician and surgeon licensed under Title 58, Chapter 67, Utah Medical Practice Act.

(d)  "D.O." means an osteopathic physician and surgeon licensed under Title 58, Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act.

(2)  Beginning with the licensing period that begins after January 1, 2014, as a condition precedent for license renewal, each controlled substance prescriber shall complete at least four continuing education hours per licensing period that satisfy the requirements of Subsections (3) and (4).

(3)  As provided in Subsection 58-37f-402(8), the online tutorial and passing the online test described in Section 58-37f-402 shall count as 1/2 hour of continuing professional education under Subsection (2) per licensing period.

(4)  A controlled substance prescriber shall complete at least 3.5 hours of continuing education hours in one or more controlled substance prescribing classes, except dentists who shall complete at least 2 such hours, that satisfy the requirements of Subsections (5) and (7).

(5)  A controlled substance prescribing class shall:

(a)  satisfy the division's requirements for the continuing education required for the renewal of the controlled substance prescriber's respective license type;

(b)  be delivered by an accredited or approved continuing education provider recognized by the division as offering continuing education appropriate for the controlled substance prescriber's respective license type; and

(c)  include a postcourse knowledge assessment.

(6)  An M.D. or D.O. completing continuing professional education hours under Subsection (4) shall complete those hours in classes that qualify for the American Medical Association Physician's Recognition Award Category 1 Credit.

(7)  The 3.5 hours of the controlled substance prescribing classes under Subsection (4) shall include educational content covering the following:

(a)  the scope of the controlled substance abuse problem in Utah and the nation;

(b)  all elements of the FDA Blueprint for Prescriber Education under the FDA's Extended-Release and Long-Acting Opioid Analgesics Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, as published July 9, 2012, or as it may be subsequently revised;

(c)  the national and Utah-specific resources available to prescribers to assist in appropriate controlled substance and opioid prescribing;

(d)  patient record documentation for controlled substance and opioid prescribing; and

(e)  office policies, procedures, and implementation.

(8) (a)  The division, in consultation with the Utah Medical Association Foundation, shall determine whether a particular controlled substance prescribing class satisfies the educational content requirements of Subsections (5) and (7) for an M.D. or D.O.

(b)  The division, in consultation with the applicable professional licensing boards, shall determine whether a particular controlled substance prescribing class satisfies the educational content requirements of Subsections (5) and (7) for a controlled substance prescriber other than an M.D. or D.O.

(c)  The division may by rule establish a committee that may audit compliance with the Utah Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) Educational Programming Project grant, that satisfies the educational content requirements of Subsections (5) and (7) for a controlled substance prescriber.

(9)  A controlled substance prescribing class required under this section:

(a)  may be held:

(i)  in conjunction with other continuing professional education programs; and

(ii)  online; and

(b)  does not increase the total number of state-required continuing professional education hours required for prescriber licensing.

(10)  The division may establish rules, in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to implement this section.



Repealed and Re-enacted by Chapter 450, 2013 General Session

