Article VII,  Section 10.   [Governor's appointive power -- Governor to appoint to fill vacancy in other state offices -- Vacancy in the office of the Lieutenant Governor.]

(1) (a)  The Governor shall nominate, and by and with consent of the Senate, appoint all State and district officers whose offices are established by this Constitution, or which may be created by law, and whose appointment or election is not otherwise provided for.

(b)  If, during the recess of the Senate, a vacancy occurs in any State or district office, the Governor shall appoint some qualified person to discharge the duties thereof until the next meeting of the Senate, when the Governor shall nominate some person to fill such office.

(2)  If the office of State Auditor, State Treasurer, or Attorney General be vacated by death, resignation, or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the Governor to fill the same by appointment, from the same political party as the removed person; and the appointee shall hold office until a successor shall be elected and qualified, as provided by law.

(3) (a)  A vacancy in the office of Lieutenant Governor occurs when:

(i)  the Lieutenant Governor dies, resigns, is removed from office following impeachment, becomes Governor under Article VII, Section 11, ceases to reside within the State, or is determined, as provided in Subsection (3)(b), to have a disability that renders the Lieutenant Governor unable to discharge the duties of office for the remainder of the Lieutenant Governor's term of office; or

(ii)  the Lieutenant Governor-elect fails to take office because of the Lieutenant Governor-elect's death, failure to qualify for office, or disability, determined as provided in Subsection (3)(b), that renders the Lieutenant Governor-elect unable to discharge the duties of office for the Lieutenant Governor-elect's full term of office.

(b) (i)  Except when the disability of a Lieutenant Governor is determined under Article VII, Section 11, Subsection (6) because the Lieutenant Governor is acting as Governor under Article VII, Section 11, Subsection (5), the disability of a Lieutenant Governor or Lieutenant Governor-elect shall be determined by a written declaration stating that the Lieutenant Governor or Lieutenant Governor-elect is unable to discharge the powers and duties of the office.

(ii)  The written declaration under Subsection (3)(b)(i) shall be transmitted to the Supreme Court and shall be signed by:

(A)  the Governor; or

(B) (I)  the Lieutenant Governor, if the Lieutenant Governor is the subject of the declaration; or

(II)  the Lieutenant Governor-elect, if the Lieutenant Governor-elect is the subject of the declaration.

(iii)  If the Lieutenant Governor or Lieutenant Governor-elect, as the case may be, disputes a declaration transmitted by the Governor under Subsection (3)(b)(i), the Lieutenant Governor or Lieutenant Governor-elect may, within ten days after the declaration is transmitted to the Supreme Court, file a petition requesting the Supreme Court to determine whether a disability exists as stated in the Governor's declaration.

(iv)  In determining whether a disability exists, the Supreme Court shall follow procedures that the Court establishes, unless the Legislature by statute establishes procedures for the Supreme Court to follow in determining whether a disability exists.

(v)  A determination of disability under this Subsection (3)(b) is final and conclusive.

(c) (i)  If a vacancy in the office of Lieutenant Governor occurs, the Governor shall, with the consent of the Senate, appoint a person as Lieutenant Governor, to serve:

(A)  except as provided in Subsection (3)(c)(i)(B), the remainder of the unexpired term; or

(B)  until the first Monday in January of the year following the next regular general election after the vacancy occurs, if the vacancy occurs because the Lieutenant Governor becomes Governor under Article VII, Section 11, Subsection (2).

(ii)  The person appointed as Lieutenant Governor under Subsection (3)(c)(i) shall be from the same political party as the Governor.

(iii)  Neither the President of the Senate nor the Speaker of the House of Representatives may, while acting as Governor under Article VII, Section 11, Subsection (4), appoint a person as Lieutenant Governor to fill a vacancy in that office.

