58-40-2.   Definitions.
In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:
(1)  "Approved," when used to refer to a course of education, training,
experience, examination, or other licensing requirement, means with approval
by the division in collaboration with the board.
(2)  "Assessment" means the use of skilled observation or evaluation by
administering and interpreting standardized or nonstandardized tests and
measurements to identify areas for recreational therapy services.
(3)  "Board" means the Board of Recreational Therapy.
(4) (a)  "Practice recreational therapy" means to engage in the paid
performance of providing therapeutic recreation services according to the
therapeutic recreational process to individuals with an emotional, social,
intellectual, or physical pathology.
(b)  A therapeutic recreational process involves minimum skills for competent
practice and includes necessary knowledge to provide the following patient
services:
(i)  assessment of individual needs for therapeutic recreational intervention;
(ii)  development of an individualized treatment or intervention plan based on
assessed interests and needs;
(iii)  appropriate implementation of therapeutic intervention services;
(iv)  evaluation and documentation of patient outcomes; and
(v)  the organization and management of therapeutic recreational services.
(5)  "Treatment or intervention plan" means a written record containing the
information required by Section 58-40-7, which is composed for each patient by
a person licensed as a master therapeutic recreational specialist or
therapeutic recreational specialist under this chapter.
(6)  "Unlawful conduct" as defined in Section 58-1-501 includes the following
conduct by any individual who is not licensed under this chapter:
(a)  advertising or representing himself as being able to teach or conduct a
recreational therapy program; or
(b)  using in connection with his name the initials MTRS, TRS, or TRT, or any
term, title, abbreviation, sign, or device relating to the practice of
recreational therapy or the licenses under this chapter.
(7)  "Unprofessional conduct" as defined in Section 58-1-501 and as may be
further defined by rule includes:
(a)  failing to supervise a therapeutic recreational technician, a student
intern, or temporarily licensed therapeutic recreational specialist when
required to do so;
(b)  failing to keep or maintain a recreational therapy treatment plan;
(c)  making sexual advances to a patient or requesting of a patient sexual
favors, sexual intercourse, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
nature;
(d)  possessing or using illegal or unprescribed prescription drugs or
medications;
(e)  using or being under the influence of intoxicating beverages while
performing recreational therapy; or
(f)  violating Sections 58-40-6 through 58-40-7.
