58-40-102.   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:

(1)  "Approved" means approval by the division in collaboration with the board when used to refer to a licensing requirement.

(2) (a)  "Assessment" means:

(i)  a systematic collection of data to identify the strengths and limitations of a person's physical, cognitive, social, behavioral, emotional, spiritual, and leisure capabilities; and

(ii)  interpreting and analyzing collected data to identify and determine a course of action for recreational therapy services for a patient.

(b)  "Assessment" includes:

(i)  a record review;

(ii)  the implementation of standardized and non-standardized instruments, tests, and measurements; and

(iii)  the skilled observation and interview of a person.

(3)  "Board" means the Board of Recreational Therapy created in Section 58-40-201.

(4)  "Practice of recreational therapy" means to engage in the paid performance of providing recreational therapy services according to the therapeutic recreation process to a person with an emotional, social, intellectual, or physical pathology.

(5)  "Recreational therapy" or "therapeutic recreation" means a person-centered process that uses recreation and psychoeducational activities as intervention tools to improve the physical, cognitive, social, behavioral, emotional, or spiritual well-being of a person with an illness or a disability.

(6) (a)  "Recreational therapy services" means using recreation and psychoeducational activities as intervention tools to improve or maintain the physical, cognitive, social, behavioral, emotional, or spiritual well-being of a person with an illness or a disability.

(b)  "Recreational therapy services" include:

(i)  assessing a person's need for recreational therapy treatment or intervention;

(ii)  developing an individualized treatment or intervention plan that identifies goals, objectives, and treatment strategies for a person;

(iii)  implementing the individualized treatment or intervention plan;

(iv)  documenting a person's response to the individualized treatment or intervention plan, including documenting the overall outcome of the person's treatment;

(v)  regularly evaluating a person's response to the individualized treatment or intervention plan and modifying the plan when appropriate;

(vi)  in collaboration with a person, the person's family, or other team members, developing a discharge or transition plan for the person;

(vii)  serving as a resource to help a person find recreation opportunities that will promote the person's physical, cognitive, social, behavioral, emotional, or spiritual health and well-being; and

(viii)  organizing and managing recreational services according to a written plan of operation as defined by rule of the division.

(7)  "Treatment or intervention plan" means a written record containing the information required by Section 58-40-602, which is composed for each patient by a person licensed under this chapter as a master therapeutic recreation specialist or a therapeutic recreation specialist.

(8)  "Unlawful conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-40-501.

(9)  "Unprofessional conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-40-502.

