63A-5-101.   Creation -- Composition -- Appointment -- Per diem and expenses
-- Administrative services.
(1) (a)  There is created a State Building Board composed of eight members,
seven of whom shall be appointed by the governor for terms of four years.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (1)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(2)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(3)  The director of the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget or the
director's designee is a nonvoting member of the board.
(4)  Each member shall hold office until a successor is appointed and
qualified, but no member shall serve more than two consecutive terms.
(5)  One member shall be designated by the governor as chair.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(7)  The members of the board are not required to give bond for the
performance of their official duties.
(8)  The department shall provide administrative and staff services to enable
the board to exercise its powers and discharge its duties, and shall provide
necessary space and equipment for the board.
