63A-5-209.   Building appropriations supervised by director -- Contingencies
-- Disposition of project reserve funds -- Set aside for Utah Percent-for-Art
Program.
(1)  The director shall:
(a) (i)  supervise the expenditure of funds in providing plans, engineering
specifications, sites, and construction of the buildings for which legislative
appropriations are made; and
(ii)  specifically allocate money appropriated when more than one project is
included in any single appropriation without legislative directive;
(b) (i)  expend the amount necessary from appropriations for planning,
engineering, and architectural work; and
(ii) (A)  allocate amounts from appropriations necessary to cover expenditures
previously made from the planning fund under Section 63A-5-211 in the
preparation of plans, engineering, and specifications; and
(B)  return the amounts described in Subsection (1)(b)(ii)(A) to the planning
fund; and
(c)  hold in a statewide contingency reserve the amount budgeted for
contingencies:
(i)  in appropriations for the construction or remodeling of facilities; and
(ii)  which may be over and above all amounts obligated by contract for
planning, engineering, architectural work, sites, and construction contracts.
(2) (a)  The director shall base the amount budgeted for contingencies on a
sliding scale percentage of the construction cost ranging from:
(i)  4-1/2% to 6-1/2% for new construction; and
(ii)  6% to 9-1/2% for remodeling projects.
(b)  The director shall hold the statewide contingency funds to cover:
(i)  costs of change orders; and
(ii)  unforeseen, necessary costs beyond those specifically budgeted for the
project.
(c) (i)  The Legislature shall annually review the percentage and the amount
held in the statewide contingency reserve.
(ii)  The Legislature may reappropriate to other building needs, including the
cost of administering building projects, any amount from the statewide
contingency reserve that is in excess of the reserve required to meet future
contingency needs.
(3) (a)  The director shall hold in a separate reserve those state
appropriated funds accrued through bid savings and project residual as a
project reserve.
(b)  The director shall account for the funds accrued under Subsection (3)(a)
in separate accounts as follows:
(i)  bid savings and project residual from a capital improvement project, as
defined in Section 63A-5-104; and
(ii)  bid savings and project residual from a capital development project, as
defined in Section 63A-5-104.
(c)  The State Building Board may authorize the use of project reserve funds
in the account described in Subsection (3)(b)(i) for a capital improvement
project:
(i)  approved under Section 63A-5-104; and
(ii)  for which funds are not allocated.
(d)  The director may:
(i)  authorize the use of project reserve funds in the accounts described in
Subsection (3)(b) for the award of contracts in excess of a project's
construction budget if the use is required to meet the intent of the project;
and
(ii)  transfer money from the account described in Subsection (3)(b)(i) to the
account described in Subsection (3)(b)(ii) if a capital development project
has exceeded its construction budget.
(e)  The director shall report to the Office of the Legislative Fiscal Analyst
within 30 days:
(i)  an authorization under Subsection (3)(c); or
(ii)  a transfer under Subsection (3)(d).
(f)  The Legislature shall annually review the amount held in the project
reserve for possible reallocation by the Legislature to other building needs,
including the cost of administering building projects.
(4)  If any part of the appropriation for a building project, other than the
part set aside for the Utah Percent-for-Art Program under Title 9, Chapter 6,
Part 4, remains unencumbered after the award of construction and professional
service contracts and establishing a reserve for fixed and moveable equipment,
the balance of the appropriation is dedicated to the project reserve and does
not revert to the General Fund.
(5) (a)  One percent of the amount appropriated for the construction of any
new state building or facility may be appropriated and set aside for the Utah
Percent-for-Art Program administered by the Division of Fine Arts under Title
9, Chapter 6, Part 4.
(b)  The director shall release to the Division of Fine Arts any funds
included in an appropriation to the division that are designated by the
Legislature for the Utah Percent-for-Art Program.
(c)  Funds from appropriations for any state building or facility of which any
part is derived from the issuance of bonds, to the extent it would jeopardize
the federal income tax exemption otherwise allowed for interest paid on bonds,
may not be set aside.
