77-28c-103.   Compact.
ARTICLE I
PURPOSE
(a)  The compacting states to this Interstate Compact recognize that each
state is responsible for the supervision of adult offenders in the community
who are authorized pursuant to the by-laws and rules of this compact to travel
across state lines both to and from each compacting state in such a manner as
to track the location of offenders, transfer supervision authority in an
orderly and efficient manner, and when necessary, return offenders to the
originating jurisdictions.  The compacting states also recognize that
Congress, by enacting the Crime Control Act, 4 U.S.C.  Section 112 (1965), has
authorized and encouraged compacts for cooperative efforts and mutual
assistance in the prevention of crime.
(b)  It is the purpose of this compact and the Interstate Commission created
hereunder, through means of joint and cooperative action among the compacting
states: To provide the framework for the promotion of public safety and
protect the rights of victims through the control and regulation of the
interstate movement of offenders in the community; to provide for the
effective tracking, supervision, and rehabilitation of these offenders by the
sending and receiving states; and to equitably distribute the costs, benefits,
and obligations of the compact among the compacting states.
(c)  In addition, this compact will: Create an Interstate Commission which
will establish uniform procedures to manage the movement between states of
adults placed under community supervision and released to the community under
the jurisdiction of courts, paroling authorities, corrections, or other
criminal justice agencies which will promulgate rules to achieve the purpose
of this compact; ensure an opportunity for input and timely notice to victims
and to jurisdictions where defined offenders are authorized to travel or to
relocate across state lines; establish a system of uniform data collection,
access to information on active cases by authorized criminal justice
officials, and regular reporting of compact activities to heads of state
councils, state executive, judicial, and legislative branches, and criminal
justice administrators; monitor compliance with rules governing interstate
movement of offenders and initiate interventions to address and correct
noncompliance; and coordinate training and education regarding regulations of
interstate movement of offenders for officials involved in such activity.
(d)  The compacting states recognize that there is no "right" of any offender
to live in another state and that duly accredited officers of a sending state
may at all times enter a receiving state and there apprehend and retake any
offender under supervision subject to the provisions of this compact and by-
laws and rules promulgated hereunder.  It is the policy of the compacting
states that the activities conducted by the Interstate Commission created
herein are the formation of public policies and are therefore public business.
ARTICLE II
DEFINITIONS
(a)  As used in this compact, unless the context clearly requires a different
construction:
(1)  "Adult" means both individuals legally classified as adults and juveniles
treated as adults by court order, statute, or operation of law.
(2)  "By-laws" mean those by-laws established by the Interstate Commission for
its governance, or for directing or controlling the Interstate Commission's
actions or conduct.
(3)  "Compact administrator" means the individual in each compacting state
appointed pursuant to the terms of this compact responsible for the
administration and management of the state's supervision and transfer of
offenders subject to the terms of this compact, the rules adopted by the
Interstate Commission and policies adopted by the state council under this
compact.
(4)  "Compacting state" means any state which has enacted the enabling
legislation for this compact.
(5)  "Commissioner" means the voting representative of each compacting state
appointed pursuant to Article III of this compact.
(6)  "Interstate Commission" means the Interstate Commission for Adult
Offender Supervision established by this compact.
(7)  "Member" means the commissioner of a compacting state or designee, who
shall be a person officially connected with the commissioner.
(8)  "Noncompacting state" means any state which has not enacted the enabling
legislation for this compact.
(9)  "Offender" means an adult placed under or subject to supervision as the
result of the commission of a criminal offense and released to the community
under the jurisdiction of courts, paroling authorities, corrections, or other
criminal justice agencies.
(10)  "Person" means any individual, corporation, business enterprise, or
other legal entity, either public or private.
(11)  "Rules" means acts of the Interstate Commission, duly promulgated
pursuant to Article VIII of this compact, substantially affecting interested
parties in addition to the Interstate Commission, which shall have the force
and effect of law in the compacting states.
(12)  "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia,
and any other territorial possessions of the United States.
(13)  "State council" means the resident members of the State Council for
Interstate Adult Offender Supervision created by each state under Article IV
of this compact.
ARTICLE III
THE COMPACT COMMISSION
(a)  The compacting states hereby create the "Interstate Commission for Adult
Offender Supervision."  The Interstate Commission shall be a body corporate
and joint agency of the compacting states.  The Interstate Commission shall
have all the responsibilities, powers, and duties set forth herein; including
the power to sue and be sued, and such additional powers as may be conferred
upon it by subsequent action of the respective legislatures of the compacting
states in accordance with the terms of this compact.
(b)  The Interstate Commission shall consist of Commissioners selected and
appointed by resident members of a State Council for Interstate Adult Offender
Supervision for each state.  In addition to the commissioners who are the
voting representatives of each state, the Interstate Commission shall include
individuals who are not commissioners but who are members of interested
organizations.  Such noncommissioner members must include a member of the
national organizations of governors, legislators, state chief justices,
attorneys general, and crime victims.  All noncommissioner members of the
Interstate Commission shall be ex-officio (nonvoting) members.  The Interstate
Commission may provide in its by-laws for such additional, ex-officio,
nonvoting members as it deems necessary.
(c)  Each compacting state represented at any meeting of the Interstate
Commission is entitled to one vote.  A majority of the compacting states shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, unless a larger quorum is
required by the by-laws of the Interstate Commission.
(d)  The Interstate Commission shall meet at least once each calendar year.
The chairperson may call additional meetings and, upon the request of 27 or
more compacting states, shall call additional meetings.  Public notice shall
be given of all meetings and meetings shall be open to the public.
(e)  The Interstate Commission shall establish an executive committee which
shall include commission officers, members, and others as shall be determined
by the by-laws.  The Executive Committee shall have the power to act on behalf
of the Interstate Commission during periods when the Interstate Commission is
not in session, with the exception of rulemaking and/or amendment to the
Compact.  The Executive Committee oversees the day-to-day activities managed
by the Executive Director and Interstate Commission staff; administers
enforcement and compliance with the provisions of the compact, its by-laws,
and as directed by the Interstate Commission; and performs other duties as
directed by the Commission or set forth in the by-laws.
ARTICLE IV
THE STATE COUNCIL
(a)  Each member state shall create a State Council for Interstate Adult
Offender Supervision which shall be responsible for the appointment of the
commissioner who shall serve on the Interstate Commission from that state.
Each state council shall appoint as its commissioner the Compact Administrator
from that state to serve on the Interstate Commission in such capacity under
or pursuant to applicable law of the member state.  While each member state
may determine the membership of its own state council, its membership must
include at least one representative from the legislative, judicial, and
executive branches of government, victims groups, and compact administrators.
(b)  Each compacting state retains the right to determine the qualifications
of the compact administrator, who shall be appointed by the state council or
by the Governor in consultation with the legislature and the judiciary.
(c)  In addition to appointment of its commissioner to the National Interstate
Commission, each state council shall exercise oversight and advocacy
concerning its participation in Interstate Commission activities and other
duties as may be determined by each member state including, but not limited
to, development of policy concerning operations and procedures of the compact
within that state.
ARTICLE V
POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION
(a)  The Interstate Commission shall have the following powers:
(1)  To adopt a seal and suitable by-laws governing the management and
operation of the Interstate Commission.
(2)  To promulgate rules which shall have the force and effect of statutory
law and shall be binding in the compacting states to the extent and in the
manner provided in this compact.
(3)  To oversee, supervise, and coordinate the interstate movement of
offenders subject to the terms of this compact and any by-laws adopted and
rules promulgated by the compact commission.
(4)  To enforce compliance with compact provisions, Interstate Commission
rules, and by-laws, using all necessary and proper means including, but not
limited to, the use of judicial process.
(5)  To establish and maintain offices.
(6)  To purchase and maintain insurance and bonds.
(7)  To borrow, accept, or contract for services of personnel including, but
not limited to, members and their staffs.
(8)  To establish and appoint committees and hire staff which it deems
necessary for the carrying out of its functions including, but not limited to,
an executive committee as required by Article III which shall have the power
to act on behalf of the Interstate Commission in carrying out its powers and
duties hereunder.
(9)  To elect or appoint such officers, attorneys, employees, agents, or
consultants, and to fix their compensation, define their duties, and determine
their qualifications; and to establish the Interstate Commission's personnel
policies and programs relating to, among other things, conflicts of interest,
rates of compensation, and qualifications of personnel.
(10)  To accept any and all donations and grants of money, equipment,
supplies, materials, and services, and to receive, utilize, and dispose of
same.
(11)  To lease, purchase, accept contributions or donations of, or otherwise
to own, hold, improve, or use any property, real, personal, or mixed.
(12)  To sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, lease, exchange, abandon, or
otherwise dispose of any property, real, personal, or mixed.
(13)  To establish a budget and make expenditures and levy dues as provided in
Article X of this compact.
(14)  To sue and be sued.
(15)  To provide for dispute resolution among compacting states.
(16)  To perform such functions as may be necessary or appropriate to achieve
the purposes of this compact.
(17)  To report annually to the legislatures, governors, judiciary, and state
councils of the compacting states concerning the activities of the Interstate
Commission during the preceding year.  Such reports shall also include any
recommendations that may have been adopted by the Interstate Commission.
(18)  To coordinate education, training, and public awareness regarding the
Interstate movement of offenders for officials involved in such activity.
(19)  To establish uniform standards for the reporting, collecting, and
exchanging of data.
ARTICLE VI
ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION
(a)  By-laws.  The Interstate Commission shall, by a majority of the members,
within 12 months of the first Interstate Commission meeting, adopt by-laws to
govern its conduct as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the
purposes of the compact including, but not limited to:
(1)  Establishing the fiscal year of the Interstate Commission;
(2)  Establishing an executive committee and such other committees as may be
necessary,  providing reasonable standards and procedures:
(i)  For the establishment of committees, and
(ii)  Governing any general or specific delegation of any authority or
function of the Interstate Commission;
(3)  Providing reasonable procedures for calling and conducting meetings of
the Interstate Commission, and ensuring reasonable notice of each such
meeting;
(4)  Establishing the titles and responsibilities of the officers of the
Interstate Commission;
(5)  Providing reasonable standards and procedures for the establishment of
the personnel policies and programs of the Interstate Commission.
Notwithstanding any civil service or other similar laws of any compacting
state, the by-laws shall exclusively govern the personnel policies and
programs of the Interstate Commission; and
(6)  Providing a mechanism for winding up the operations of the Interstate
Commission and the equitable return of any surplus funds that may exist upon
the termination of the compact after the payment and/or reserving of all of
its debts and obligations;
(7)  Providing transition rules for "start up" administration of the compact;
(8)  Establishing standards and procedures for compliance and technical
assistance in carrying out the compact.
(b)  Officers and Staff.
(1)  The Interstate Commission shall, by a majority of the members, elect from
among its members a chairperson and a vice chairperson, each of whom shall
have such authorities and duties as may be specified in the by-laws.  The
chairperson or, in his or her absence or disability, the vice chairperson,
shall preside at all meetings of the Interstate Commission.  The officers so
elected shall serve without compensation or remuneration from the Interstate
Commission; provided that subject to the availability of budgeted funds, the
officers shall be reimbursed for any actual and necessary costs and expenses
incurred by them in the performance of their duties and responsibilities as
officers of the Interstate Commission.
(2)  The Interstate Commission shall, through its executive committee, appoint
or retain an executive director for such period, upon such terms and
conditions and for such compensation as the Interstate Commission may deem
appropriate.  The executive director shall serve as secretary to the
Interstate Commission, and hire and supervise such other staff as may be
authorized by the Interstate Commission, but shall not be a member.
(c)  Corporate Records of the Interstate Commission.  The Interstate
Commission shall maintain its corporate books and records in accordance with
the by-laws.
(d)  Qualified Immunity, Defense, and Indemnification.
(1)  The members, officers, executive director, and employees of the
Interstate Commission shall be immune from suit and liability, either
personally or in their official capacity, for any claim for damage to or loss
of property or personal injury or other civil liability caused or arising out
of any actual or alleged act, error or omission that occurred within the scope
of Interstate Commission employment, duties, or responsibilities; provided,
that nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to protect any such person
from suit and/or liability for any damage, loss, injury, or liability caused
by the intentional or willful and wanton misconduct of any such person.
(2)  The Interstate Commission shall defend the commissioner of a compacting
state, or his or her representatives or employees, or the Interstate
Commission's representatives or employees, in any civil action seeking to
impose liability, arising out of any actual or alleged act, error or omission
that occurred within the scope of Interstate Commission employment, duties, or
responsibilities, or that the defendant had a reasonable basis for believing
occurred within the scope of Interstate Commission employment, duties, or
responsibilities; provided, that the actual or alleged act, error, or omission
did not result from intentional wrongdoing on the part of such person.
(3)  The Interstate Commission shall indemnify and hold the commissioner of a
compacting state, the appointed designee, or employees, or the Interstate
Commission's representatives or employees, harmless in the amount of any
settlement or judgement obtained against such persons arising out of any
actual or alleged act, error, or omission that occurred within the scope of
Interstate Commission employment, duties, or responsibilities, or that such
persons had a reasonable basis for believing occurred within the scope of
Interstate Commission employment, duties, or responsibilities, provided, that
the actual or alleged act, error, or omission did not result from gross
negligence or intentional wrongdoing on the part of such person.
ARTICLE VII
ACTIVITIES OF THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION
(a)  The Interstate Commission shall meet and take such actions as are
consistent with the provisions of this compact.
(b)  Except as otherwise provided in this compact and unless a greater
percentage is required by the by-laws, in order to constitute an act of the
Interstate Commission, such act shall have been taken at a meeting of the
Interstate Commission and shall have received an affirmative vote of a
majority of the members present.
(c)  Each member of the Interstate Commission shall have the right and power
to cast a vote to which that Compacting State is entitled and to participate
in the business and affairs of the Interstate Commission.  A member shall vote
in person on behalf of the state and shall not delegate a vote to another
member state.  However, a state council shall appoint another authorized
representative, in the absence of the commissioner from that state, to cast a
vote on behalf of the member state at a specified meeting.  The by-laws may
provide for members' participation in meetings by telephone or other means of
telecommunication or electronic communication.  Any voting conducted by
telephone, or other means of telecommunication or electronic communication,
shall be subject to the same quorum requirements of meetings where members are
present in person.
(d)  The Interstate Commission shall meet at least once during each calendar
year.  The chairperson of the Interstate Commission may call additional
meetings at any time and, upon the request of a majority of the members, shall
call additional meetings.
(e)  The Interstate Commission's by-laws shall establish conditions and
procedures under which the Interstate Commission shall make its information
and official records available to the public for inspection or copying.  The
Interstate Commission may exempt from disclosure any information or official
records to the extent they would adversely affect personal privacy rights or
proprietary interests.  In promulgating such rules, the Interstate Commission
may make available to law enforcement agencies records and information
otherwise exempt from disclosure, and may enter into agreements with law
enforcement agencies to receive or exchange information or records subject to
nondisclosure and confidentiality provisions.
(f)  Public notice shall be given of all meetings and all meetings shall be
open to the public, except as set forth in the rules or as otherwise provided
in the compact.  The Interstate Commission shall promulgate rules consistent
with the principles contained in the "Government in Sunshine Act," 5 U.S.C.
Section 552(b), as may be amended.  The Interstate Commission and any of its
committees may close a meeting to the public where it determines by two-thirds
vote that an open meeting would be likely to:
(1)  Relate solely to the Interstate Commission's internal personnel practices
and procedures;
(2)  Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute;
(3)  Disclose trade secrets or commercial or financial information which is
privileged or confidential;
(4)  Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(5)  Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would
constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(6)  Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes;
(7)  Disclose information contained in or related to examination, operating,
or condition reports prepared by, or on behalf of or for the use of, the
Interstate Commission with respect to a regulated entity for the purpose of
regulation or supervision of such entity;
(8)  Disclose information, the premature disclosure of which would
significantly endanger the life of a person or the stability of a regulated
entity;
(9)  Specifically relate to the Interstate Commission's issuance of a
subpoena, or its participation in a civil action or proceeding.
(g)  For every meeting closed pursuant to this provision, the Interstate
Commission's chief legal officer shall publicly certify that, in his or her
opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public, and shall reference each
relevant provision authorizing closure of the meeting.  The Interstate
Commission shall keep minutes which shall fully and clearly describe all
matters discussed in any meeting and shall provide a full and accurate summary
of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of
each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any roll call vote
(reflected in the vote of each member on the question).  All documents
considered in connection with any action shall be identified in such minutes.
(h)  The Interstate Commission shall collect standardized data concerning the
Interstate movement of offenders as directed through its by-laws and rules
which shall specify the data to be collected, the means of collection, and
data exchange and reporting requirements.
ARTICLE VIII
RULEMAKING FUNCTIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION
(a)  The Interstate Commission shall promulgate rules in order to effectively
and efficiently achieve the purposes of the compact, including transition
rules governing administration of the compact during the period in which it is
being considered and enacted by the states.
(b)  Rulemaking shall occur pursuant to the criteria set forth in this article
and the by-laws and rules adopted pursuant thereto.  Such rulemaking shall
substantially conform to the principles of the federal Administrative
Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C.S.  Section 551 et seq., and the Federal Advisory
Committee Act, 5 U.S.C.S.  App.  2, Section 1 et seq., as may be amended
(hereinafter "APA").  All rules and amendments shall become binding as of the
date specified in each rule or amendment.
(c)  If a majority of the legislatures of the compacting states rejects a
rule, by enactment of a statute or resolution in the same manner used to adopt
the compact, then such rule shall have no further force and effect in any
compacting state.
(d)  When promulgating a rule, the Interstate Commission shall:
(1)  Publish the proposed rule, stating with particularity the text of the
rule which is proposed and the reason for the proposed rule;
(2)  Allow persons to submit written data, facts, opinions, and arguments,
which information shall be publicly available;
(3)  Provide an opportunity for an informal hearing; and
(4)  Promulgate a final rule and its effective date, if appropriate, based on
the rulemaking record.  Not later than 60 days after a rule is promulgated,
any interested person may file a petition in the United States District Court
for the District of Columbia or in the Federal District Court where the
Interstate Commission's principal office is located for judicial review of
such rule.  If the court finds that the Interstate Commission's action is not
supported by substantial evidence, (as defined in the APA), in the rulemaking
record, the court shall hold the rule unlawful and set it aside.
(e)  Subjects to be addressed within 12 months after the first meeting must at
a minimum include:
(i)  notice to victims and opportunity to be heard;
(ii)  offender registration and compliance;
(iii)  violations/returns;
(iv)  transfer procedures and forms;
(v)  eligibility for transfer;
(vi)  collection of restitution and fees from offenders;
(vii)  data collection and reporting;
(viii)  the level of supervision to be provided by the receiving state;
(ix)  transition rules governing the operation of the compact and the
Interstate Commission during all or part of the period between the effective
date of the compact and the date on which the last eligible state adopts the
compact; and
(x)  mediation, arbitration, and dispute resolution.
(f)  The existing rules governing the operation of the previous compact
superceded by this act shall be null and void 12 months after the first
meeting of the Interstate Commission created hereunder.
(g)  Upon determination by the Interstate Commission that an emergency exists,
it may promulgate an emergency rule which shall become effective immediately
upon adoption, provided that the usual rulemaking procedures provided
hereunder shall be retroactively applied to said rule as soon as reasonably
possible, in no event later than 90 days after the effective date of the rule.
ARTICLE IX
OVERSIGHT, ENFORCEMENT, AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION BY THE
INTERSTATE COMMISSION
(a)  Oversight.
(1)  The Interstate Commission shall oversee the Interstate movement of adult
offenders in the compacting states and shall monitor such activities being
administered in noncompacting states which may significantly affect compacting
states.
(2)  The courts and executive agencies in each compacting state shall enforce
this compact and shall take all actions necessary and appropriate to
effectuate the compact's purposes and intent.  In any judicial or
administrative proceeding in a compacting state pertaining to the subject
matter of this compact which may affect the powers, responsibilities, or
actions of the Interstate Commission, the Interstate Commission shall be
entitled to receive all service of process in any such proceeding, and shall
have standing to intervene in the proceeding for all purposes.
(b)  Dispute Resolution.
(1)  The compacting states shall report to the Interstate Commission on issues
or activities of concern to them, and cooperate with and support the
Interstate Commission in the discharge of its duties and responsibilities.
(2)  The Interstate Commission shall attempt to resolve any disputes or other
issues which are subject to the compact and which may arise among compacting
states and noncompacting states.
(3)  The Interstate Commission shall enact a by-law or promulgate a rule
providing for both mediation and binding dispute resolution for disputes among
the compacting states.
(c)  Enforcement.  The Interstate Commission, in the reasonable exercise of
its discretion, shall enforce the provisions of this compact using any or all
means set forth in Article XII (b) of this compact.
ARTICLE X
FINANCE
(a)  The Interstate Commission shall pay or provide for the payment of the
reasonable expenses of its establishment, organization, and ongoing
activities.
(b)  The Interstate Commission shall levy on and collect an annual assessment
from each compacting state to cover the cost of the internal operations and
activities of the Interstate Commission and its staff which must be in a total
amount sufficient to cover the Interstate Commission's annual budget as
approved each year.  The aggregate annual assessment amount shall be allocated
based upon a formula to be determined by the Interstate Commission, taking
into consideration the population of the state and the volume of interstate
movement of offenders in each compacting state and shall promulgate a rule
binding upon all compacting states which governs said assessment.
(c)  The Interstate Commission shall not incur any obligations of any kind
prior to securing the funds adequate to meet the same; nor shall the
Interstate Commission pledge the credit of any of the compacting states,
except by and with the authority of the compacting state.
(d)  The Interstate Commission shall keep accurate accounts of all receipts
and disbursements.  The receipts and disbursements of the Interstate
Commission shall be subject to the audit and accounting procedures established
under its by-laws.  However, all receipts and disbursements of funds handled
by the Interstate Commission shall be audited yearly by a certified or
licensed public accountant and the report of the audit shall be included in
and become part of the annual report of the Interstate Commission.
ARTICLE XI
COMPACTING STATES, EFFECTIVE DATE, AND AMENDMENT
(a)  Any state, as defined in Article II of this compact, is eligible to
become a compacting state.
(b)  The compact shall become effective and binding upon legislative enactment
of the compact into law by no less than 35 of the states.  The initial
effective date shall be the later of July 1, 2001, or upon enactment into law
by the thirty-fifth jurisdiction.  Thereafter it shall become effective and
binding, as to any other compacting state, upon enactment of the compact into
law by that state.  The governors of nonmember states or their designees will
be invited to participate in Interstate Commission activities on a nonvoting
basis prior to adoption of the compact by all states and territories of the
United States.
(c)  Amendments to the compact may be proposed by the Interstate Commission
for enactment by the compacting states.  No amendment shall become effective
and binding upon the Interstate Commission and the compacting states unless
and until it is enacted into law by unanimous consent of the compacting
states.
ARTICLE XII
WITHDRAWAL, DEFAULT, TERMINATION, AND JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT
(a)  Withdrawal.
(1)  Once effective, the compact shall continue in force and remain binding
upon each and every compacting state; provided, that a compacting state may
withdraw from the compact ("withdrawing state") by enacting a statute
specifically repealing the statute which enacted the compact into law.
(2)  The effective date of withdrawal is the effective date of the repeal.
(3)  The withdrawing state shall immediately notify the chairperson of the
Interstate Commission in writing upon the introduction of legislation
repealing this compact in the withdrawing state.  The Interstate Commission
shall notify the other compacting states of the withdrawing state's intent to
withdraw within 60 days of its receipt thereof.
(4)  The withdrawing state is responsible for all assessments, obligations,
and liabilities incurred through the effective date of withdrawal, including
any obligations, the performance of which extend beyond the effective date of
withdrawal.
(5)  Reinstatement following withdrawal of any compacting state shall occur
upon the withdrawing state reenacting the compact or upon such later date as
determined by the Interstate Commission.
(b)  Default.
(1)  If the Interstate Commission determines that any compacting state has at
any time defaulted ("defaulting state") in the performance of any of its
obligations or responsibilities under this compact, the by-laws, or any duly
promulgated rules, the Interstate Commission may impose any or all of the
following penalties:
(i)  Fines, fees, and costs in such amounts as are deemed to be reasonable as
fixed by the Interstate Commission;
(ii)  Remedial training and technical assistance as directed by the Interstate
Commission;
(iii)  Suspension and termination of membership in the compact.  Suspension
shall be imposed only after all other reasonable means of securing compliance
under the by-laws and rules have been exhausted.  Immediate notice of
suspension shall be given by the Interstate Commission to the governor, the
chief justice or chief judicial officer of the state, the majority and
minority leaders of the defaulting state's legislature, and the state council.
(2)  The grounds for default include, but are not limited to, failure of a
compacting state to perform such obligations or responsibilities imposed upon
it by this compact, Interstate Commission by-laws, or duly promulgated rules.
The Interstate Commission shall immediately notify the defaulting state in
writing of the penalty imposed by the Interstate Commission on the defaulting
state pending a cure of the default.  The Interstate Commission shall
stipulate the conditions and the time period within which the defaulting state
must cure its default.  If the defaulting state fails to cure the default
within the time period specified by the Interstate Commission, in addition to
any other penalties imposed herein, the defaulting state may be terminated
from the compact upon an affirmative vote of a majority of the compacting
states and all rights, privileges, and benefits conferred by this compact
shall be terminated from the effective date of suspension.  Within 60 days of
the effective date of termination of a defaulting state, the Interstate
Commission shall notify the governor, the chief justice or chief judicial
officer, and the majority and minority leaders of the defaulting state's
legislature and the state council of such termination.
(3)  The defaulting state is responsible for all assessments, obligations, and
liabilities incurred through the effective date of termination including any
obligations, the performance of which extends beyond the effective date of
termination.
(4)  The Interstate Commission shall not bear any costs relating to the
defaulting state unless otherwise mutually agreed upon between the Interstate
Commission and the defaulting state.  Reinstatement following termination of
any compacting state requires both a reenactment of the compact by the
defaulting state and the approval of the Interstate Commission pursuant to the
rules.
(c)  Judicial Enforcement.  The Interstate Commission may, by majority vote of
the members, initiate legal action in the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia or, at the discretion of the Interstate Commission, in
the federal district where the Interstate Commission has its offices, to
enforce compliance with the provisions of the compact and its duly promulgated
rules and by-laws, against any compacting state in default.  In the event
judicial enforcement is necessary the prevailing party shall be awarded all
costs of such litigation including reasonable attorneys' fees.
(d)  Dissolution of Compact.
(1)  The compact dissolves effective upon the date of the withdrawal or
default of the compacting state which reduces membership in the compact to one
compacting state.
(2)  Upon the dissolution of this compact, the compact becomes null and void
and shall be of no further force or effect, and the business and affairs of
the Interstate Commission shall be wound up and any surplus funds shall be
distributed in accordance with the by-laws.
ARTICLE XIII
SEVERABILITY AND CONSTRUCTION
(a)  The provisions of this compact shall be severable, and if any phrase,
clause, sentence, or provision is deemed unenforceable, the remaining
provisions of the compact shall be enforceable.
(b)  The provisions of this compact shall be liberally constructed to
effectuate its purposes.
ARTICLE XIV
BINDING EFFECT OF COMPACT AND OTHER LAWS
(a)  Other Laws.
(1)  Nothing herein prevents the enforcement of any other law of a compacting
state that is not inconsistent with this compact.
(2)  All compacting states' laws conflicting with this compact are superseded
to the extent of the conflict.
(b)  Binding Effect of the Compact.
(1)  All lawful actions of the Interstate Commission, including all rules and
by-laws promulgated by the Interstate Commission, are binding upon the
compacting states.
(2)  All agreements between the Interstate Commission and the compacting
states are binding in accordance with their terms.
(3)  Upon the request of a party to a conflict over meaning or interpretation
of Interstate Commission actions, and upon a majority vote of the compacting
states, the Interstate Commission may issue advisory opinions regarding such
meaning or interpretation.
(4)  In the event any provision of this compact exceeds the constitutional
limits imposed on the legislature of any compacting state, the obligations,
duties, powers, or jurisdiction sought to be conferred by such provision upon
the Interstate Commission shall be ineffective and such obligations, duties,
powers, or jurisdiction shall remain in the compacting state and shall be
exercised by the agency thereof to which such obligations, duties, powers, or
jurisdiction are delegated by law in effect at the time this compact becomes
effective.
