72-11-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Aerial lift" means a ropeway on which passengers are transported in cabins or on chairs.

(2)  "Aerial tramway" means a ropeway on which passengers are transported in cable supported carriers and are not in contact with the ground or snow surface and that reciprocates between terminals.

(3)  "Area" means the geographic area, terrain, and ski slopes served by a passenger ropeway.

(4)  "Committee" means the Passenger Ropeway Safety Committee created by Section 72-11-202.

(5)  "Conveyor" means a device used to transport skiers and snowboarders standing on a flexible moving element or belt.

(6)  "Detachable grip lift" means a monocable or bicable ropeway system on which carriers circulate around the system alternately attaching to and detaching from a moving haul rope.

(7)  "Funicular" means a ropeway on which carriers are supported and guided by a guideway and that is propelled by means of a haul rope system and that is operated as a single or double reversible system.

(8)  "Industry" means the passenger ropeway business activities of any person in the state who owns, manages, or directs the operation of a passenger ropeway.

(9)  "Operator" means a person, including any political subdivision or instrumentality of the political subdivision, who owns, manages, or directs the operation of a passenger ropeway.

(10) (a)  "Passenger ropeway"  means a device, excluding an elevator, used to transport passengers along a level, inclined or declined path by means of a haul rope or other flexible elements that is driven by a power unit that remains essentially at a single location.

(b)  Passenger ropeways include the following:

(i)  an aerial tramway;

(ii)  an aerial lift, including a detachable grip lift and chair lift;

(iii)  a conveyor;

(iv)  a funicular;

(v)  a surface lift, including a J-bar, T-bar, or platter pull; and

(vi)  a  rope tow, including a wire rope and fiber rope tow.

(11)  "Private residence passenger ropeway" means a passenger ropeway that:

(a)  is installed at a private residence;

(b)  is not accessible to the general public;

(c)  is not used for commercial purposes; and

(d) (i)  is owned by one single owner; and

(ii)  the owner described in Subsection (11)(d)(i) is not:

(A)  a unit or homeowner's association; or

(B)  a planned unit development or a planned residential unit development organization or entity.

(12)  "Rope tow" means a ropeway on which passengers remain in contact with the ground or snow surface and are pulled in one direction only by a towing device attached to a circulating wire rope.

(13)  "Surface lift" means a ropeway on which passengers remain in contact with the ground or snow surface and are pulled by a towing device attached to a circulating overhead wire rope, and includes a J-bar, T-bar, or platter pull.



Amended by Chapter 212, 2010 General Session

