34-41-101.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Drug" means any substance recognized as a drug in the United States Pharmacopeia, the National Formulary, the Homeopathic Pharmacopeia, or other drug compendia, including Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or supplement to any of those compendia.

(2)  "Drug testing" means the scientific analysis for the presence of drugs or their metabolites in the human body in accordance with the definitions and terms of this chapter.

(3)  "Local governmental employee" means any person or officer in the service of a local governmental entity or state institution of higher education for compensation.

(4) (a)  "Local governmental entity" means any political subdivision of Utah including any county, municipality, local school district, local district, special service district, or any administrative subdivision of those entities.

(b)  "Local governmental entity" does not mean Utah state government or its administrative subdivisions provided for in Sections 67-19-33 through 67-19-38.

(5)  "Periodic testing" means preselected and preannounced drug testing of employees or volunteers conducted on a regular schedule.

(6)  "Prospective employee" means any person who has made a written or oral application to become an employee of a local governmental entity or a state institution of higher education.

(7)  "Random testing" means the unannounced drug testing of an employee or volunteer who was selected for testing by using a method uninfluenced by any personal characteristics other than job category.

(8)  "Reasonable suspicion for drug testing" means an articulated belief based on the recorded specific facts and reasonable inferences drawn from those facts that a local government employee or volunteer is in violation of the drug-free workplace policy.

(9)  "Rehabilitation testing" means unannounced but preselected drug testing done as part of a program of counseling, education, and treatment of an employee or volunteer in conjunction with the drug-free workplace policy.

(10)  "Safety sensitive position" means any local governmental or state institution of higher education position involving duties which directly affects the safety of governmental employees, the general public, or positions where there is access to controlled substances, as defined in Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, during the course of performing job duties.

(11)  "Sample" means urine, blood, breath, saliva, or hair.

(12)  "State institution of higher education" means the institution as defined in Section 53B-3-102.

(13)  "Volunteer" means any person who donates services as authorized by the local governmental entity or state institution of higher education without pay or other compensation except expenses actually and reasonably incurred.



Amended by Chapter 329, 2007 General Session

