49-15-202.   Participation of employers -- Requirements -- Admission -- Full
participation in system -- Supplemental programs authorized.
(1) An employer that employs public safety service employees and is required
by Section 49-12-202 or 49-13-202 to be a participating employer in the Public
Employees' Contributory Retirement System or the Public Employees'
Noncontributory Retirement System shall cover all its public safety service
employees under one of the following systems:
(a) Chapter 12, Public Employees' Contributory Retirement Act;
(b) Chapter 13, Public Employees' Noncontributory Retirement Act;
(c) Chapter 14, Public Safety Contributory Retirement Act; or
(d) Chapter 15, Public Safety Noncontributory Retirement Act.
(2)  An employer that covers its public safety employees under Subsection
(1)(d) is a participating employer in this system.
(3)  If a participating employer under Subsection (1) covers any of its public
safety service employees under the Public Safety Contributory Retirement
System or the Public Safety Noncontributory Retirement System, that
participating employer shall cover all of its public safety service employees
under one of those systems.
(4) (a)  An employer that is not participating in this system may by
resolution of its governing body apply for coverage of its public safety
service employees by this system.
(b)  Upon approval of the board, the employer shall become a participating
employer in this system subject to this title.
(5)  If a participating employer purchases service credit on behalf of
employees for service rendered prior to the participating employer's admission
to this system, the service credit must be purchased in a nondiscriminatory
manner on behalf of all current and former employees who were eligible for
service credit at the time service was rendered.
(6)  A participating employer may not withdraw from this system.
(7)  In addition to their participation in the system, participating employers
may provide or participate in any additional public or private retirement,
supplemental or defined contribution plan, either directly or indirectly, for
their employees.
