26-18a-2.   Creation and membership of Kurt Oscarson Children's Organ
Transplant Coordinating Committee -- Expenses.
(1)  There is created the Kurt Oscarson Children's Organ Transplant
Coordinating Committee.
(2)  The committee shall have five members representing the following:
(a)  the executive director of the Department of Health or his designee;
(b)  two representatives from public or private agencies and organizations
concerned with providing support and financial assistance to the children and
families of children who need organ transplants; and
(c)  two individuals who have had organ transplants, have children who have
had organ transplants, who work with families or children who have had or are
awaiting organ transplants, or community leaders or volunteers who have
demonstrated an interest in working with families or children in need of organ
transplants.
(3) (a)  The governor shall appoint the committee members and designate the
chair from among the committee members.
(b) (i)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b)(ii), each member shall serve
a four-year term.
(ii)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(b)(i), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of the committee members are staggered so that
approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.
(4) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees receive no compensation
or benefits for their services, but may, at the executive director's
discretion, receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the
member’s official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance
under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(5)  The Department of Health shall provide support staff for the committee.
