53B-2-104.   Memberships of board of trustees -- Terms -- Vacancies -- Oath
-- Officers -- Bylaws -- Quorum -- Committees -- Compensation.
(1) (a)  The board of trustees of an institution of higher education consists
of the following:
(i)  eight persons appointed by the governor and approved by the Senate; and
(ii)  two ex officio members who are the president of the institution's alumni
association, and the president of the associated students of the institution.
(b)  The appointed members of the boards of trustees for Utah Valley
University and Salt Lake Community College shall be representative of the
interests of business, industry, and labor.
(2) (a)  The governor shall appoint four members of each board of trustees
during each odd-numbered year to four-year terms commencing on July 1 of the
year of appointment.
(b)  An appointed member holds office until a successor is appointed and
qualified.
(c)  The ex officio members serve for the same period as they serve as
presidents and until their successors have qualified.
(3)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(4) (a)  Each member shall take the official oath of office prior to assuming
the office.
(b)  The oath shall be filed with the Division of Archives and Records
Services.
(5)  Each board of trustees shall elect a chair and vice chair, who serve for
two years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(6) (a)  Each board of trustees may enact bylaws for its own government,
including provision for regular meetings.
(b) (i)  The board of trustees may provide for an executive committee in its
bylaws.
(ii)  If established, the committee shall have full authority of the board of
trustees to act upon routine matters during the interim between board of
trustees meetings.
(iii)  The committee may act on nonroutine matters only under extraordinary
and emergency circumstances.
(iv)  The committee shall report its activities to the board of trustees at
its next regular meeting following the action.
(c)  Copies of the board of trustees' bylaws shall be filed with the board.
(7)  A quorum is required to conduct business and consists of six members.
(8)  A board of trustees may establish advisory committees.
(9) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Higher education members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties from
the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Higher education members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(10)  This section does not apply to the Utah College of Applied Technology.
