31A-8-407.   Written contracts -- Limited liability of enrollee -- Provider
claim disputes -- Leased networks.
(1) (a)  Every contract between an organization and a participating provider
of health care services shall be in writing and shall set forth that if the
organization:
(i)  fails to pay for health care services as set forth in the contract, the
enrollee may not be liable to the provider for any sums owed by the
organization; and
(ii)  becomes insolvent, the rehabilitator or liquidator may require the
participating provider of health care services to:
(A)  continue to provide health care services under the contract between the
participating provider and the organization until the earlier of:
(I)  90 days after the date of the filing of a petition for rehabilitation or
the petition for liquidation; or
(II)  the date the term of the contract ends; and
(B)  subject to Subsection (1)(c), reduce the fees the participating provider
is otherwise entitled to receive from the organization under the contract
between the participating provider and the organization during the time period
described in Subsection (1)(a)(ii)(A).
(b)  If the conditions of Subsection (1)(c) are met, the participating
provider shall:
(i)  accept the reduced payment as payment in full; and
(ii)  relinquish the right to collect additional amounts from the insolvent
organization's enrollee.
(c)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a)(ii)(B):
(i)  the rehabilitator or liquidator may not reduce a fee to less than 75% of
the regular fee set forth in the participating provider contract; and
(ii)  the enrollee shall continue to pay the same copayments, deductibles, and
other payments for services received from the participating provider that the
enrollee was required to pay before the filing of:
(A)  the petition for rehabilitation; or
(B)  the petition for liquidation.
(2)  A participating provider may not collect or attempt to collect from the
enrollee sums owed by the organization or the amount of the regular fee
reduction authorized under Subsection (1)(a)(ii) if the participating provider
contract:
(a)  is not in writing as required in Subsection (1); or
(b)  fails to contain the language required by Subsection (1).
(3) (a)  A person listed in Subsection (3)(b) may not bill or maintain any
action at law against an enrollee to collect:
(i)  sums owed by the organization; or
(ii)  the amount of the regular fee reduction authorized under Subsection
(1)(a)(ii).
(b)  Subsection (3)(a) applies to:
(i)  a participating provider;
(ii)  an agent;
(iii)  a trustee; or
(iv)  an assignee of a person described in Subsections (3)(b)(i) through
(iii).
(c)  In any dispute involving a provider's claim for reimbursement, the same
shall be determined in accordance with applicable law, the provider contract,
the subscriber contract, and the organization's written payment policies in
effect at the time services were rendered.
(d)  If the parties are unable to resolve their dispute, the matter shall be
subject to binding arbitration by a jointly selected arbitrator.  Each party
is to bear its own expense except the cost of the jointly selected arbitrator
shall be equally shared.  This Subsection (3)(d) does not apply to the claim
of a general acute hospital to the extent it is inconsistent with the
hospital's provider agreement.
(e)  An organization may not penalize a provider solely for pursuing a claims
dispute or otherwise demanding payment for a sum believed owing.
(4)  If an organization permits another private entity with which it does not
share common ownership or control to use or otherwise lease one or more of the
organization's networks that include participating providers, the organization
shall ensure, at a minimum, that the entity pays participating providers in
accordance with the same fee schedule and general payment policies as the
organization would for that network unless payment for services is governed by
a public program's fee schedule.
