63H-2-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Authority" means the Utah Generated Renewable Energy Electricity Network
Authority created in Section 63H-2-201.
(2)  "Authority bond" means a bond issued by the authority in accordance with
Part 4, Bonding.
(3)  "Board" means the board created under Section 63H-2-202.
(4)  "Community" means the county, city, or town in which is located a
qualifying transmission project financed by an authority bond.
(5)  "Electric interlocal entity" means an interlocal entity defined in
Section 11-13-103.
(6)  "Independent state agency" is as defined in Section 63E-1-102.
(7)  "Public entity" means:
(a)  the United States or an agency of the United States;
(b)  the state or an agency of the state;
(c)  a political subdivision of the state or an agency of a political
subdivision of the state;
(d)  another state or an agency of that state; or
(e)  a political subdivision of another state or an agency of that political
subdivision.
(8)  "Qualifying transmission project" means a transmission project approved
by the board in accordance with Part 3, Qualifying Transmission Projects.
(9)  "Record" means information that is:
(a)  inscribed on a tangible medium; or
(b) (i)  stored in an electronic or other medium; and
(ii)  retrievable in perceivable form.
(10)  "Related facility" means a facility related to the effective operation
of a transmission line although the facility is not directly a part of a
transmission line, including:
(a)  a substation; or
(b)  an access road.
(11)  "Renewable energy source" is as defined in Section 10-19-102.
(12)  "Transmission project" means a project that is designed to:
(a)  increase capacity for transmission of electric power or energy to an
electric load:
(i)   within this state; or
(ii)  outside of the state; or
(b)  otherwise increase the capability of an existing electric transmission
line or related facility to transmit electric power and energy from a
renewable energy resource to an electric load:
(i)  within this state; or
(ii)  outside of the state.
(13)  "Wholesale electrical cooperative" is as defined in Section 54-2-1.
