63H-2-202.   Authority board.
(1)  There is created a board of the authority that consists of seven members,
appointed by the governor, except that the governor shall appoint:
(a)  one member from the Governor's Office of Economic Development;
(b)  three members from a public utility or electric interlocal entity that
operates electric transmission facilities within the state as follows:
(i)  one member is to be appointed from recommendations from an investor-owned
electric corporation that operates in this state;
(ii)  one member is to be appointed from recommendations from a wholesale
electrical cooperative in the state; and
(iii)  one member is to be appointed from recommendations from an electric
interlocal entity;
(c)  one member of the School and Institutional Trust Lands Board of Trustees
created in Section 53C-1-202;
(d)  one representative of a business entity that produces a renewable energy
source; and
(e)  one member of the general public.
(2) (a)  The term of a board member is four years.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a), the governor shall, at the time of
appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the
terms of board members are staggered so that approximately half of the board
is appointed every two years.
(c)  The governor may remove a member of the board for cause.
(d)  The governor shall fill a vacancy in the board in the same manner under
this section as the appointment of the member whose vacancy is being filled.
(e)  An individual appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve the remaining
unexpired term of the member whose vacancy the individual is filling.
(f)  A board member shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(3)  The governor shall appoint a member of the board to be the chair of the
board, except that the member appointed as chair must be the member appointed
under Subsection (1)(a).
(4) (a)  Four members of the board is a quorum for conducting board business.
(b)  A majority vote of the quorum present is required for an action to be
taken by the board.
(5) (a)  The board shall meet at least quarterly on a date the board sets.
(b)  The chair of the board or any two members of the board may call
additional meetings.
(6) (a) (i)  A member who is not a government employee may not receive
compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem
and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official duties at
the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  A member who is not a government employee may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for the member's service.
(b) (i)  A state government officer or employee member who does not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from the agency the member represents for the
member's service may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance
of the member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of
Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A state government officer or employee member may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for the member's service.
