32B-4-205.   Prosecutions.

(1) (a)  A prosecution for a violation of this title shall be in the name of the state.

(b)  A criminal action for violation of a county or municipal ordinance enacted in furtherance of this title shall be in the name of the governmental entity involved.

(2) (a)  A prosecution for violation of this title shall be brought by the county attorney of the county or district attorney of the prosecution district where the violation occurs.  If a county attorney or district attorney fails to initiate or diligently pursue a prosecution authorized and warranted under this title, the attorney general shall exercise supervisory authority over the county attorney or district attorney to ensure prosecution is initiated and diligently pursued.

(b)  If a violation occurs within a city or town, prosecution may be brought by either the county, district, or city attorney, notwithstanding any provision of law limiting the powers of a city attorney.

(c)  A city or town prosecutor has the responsibility of initiating and diligently pursuing prosecutions for a violation of a local ordinance enacted in furtherance of this title or commission rules.

(3) (a)  A prosecution for a violation of this title shall be commenced by the return of an indictment or the filing of an information with the district court of the county in which the offense occurs or where the premises are located upon which an alcoholic product is seized, if the offense involves an alcoholic product.

(b)  An offense prescribed by this title that is not described in Subsection (3)(a) shall be filed before a court having jurisdiction of the offense committed.

(4) (a)  Unless otherwise provided by law, an information may not be filed charging the commission of a felony or class A misdemeanor under this title unless authorized by a prosecuting attorney.

(b)  This Subsection (4) does not apply if the magistrate has reasonable cause to believe that the person to be charged may avoid apprehension or escape before approval can be obtained.

(5) (a)  In describing an offense respecting the sale, keeping for sale, or other disposal of an alcoholic product, or the possessing, keeping, purchasing, consumption, or giving of an alcoholic product in an information, indictment, summons, judgment, warrant, or proceeding under this title, it is sufficient to state the possessing, purchasing, keeping, sale, keeping for sale, giving, consumption, or disposal of the alcoholic product without stating:

(i)  the name or kind of alcoholic product;

(ii)  the price of the alcoholic product;

(iii)  any person to whom the alcoholic product is sold or disposed of;

(iv)  by whom the alcoholic product is taken or consumed; or

(v)  from whom the alcoholic product is purchased or received.

(b)  It is not necessary to state the quantity of alcoholic product possessed, purchased, kept, kept for sale, sold, given, consumed, or disposed of, except in the case of an offense when the quantity is essential, and then it is sufficient to allege the sale or disposal of more or less than the quantity.

(6)  If an offense is committed under a local ordinance enacted to carry out this title, it is sufficient if the charging document refers to the chapter and section of the ordinance under which the offense is committed.



Enacted by Chapter 276, 2010 General Session

