32B-4-415.   Unlawful bringing onto premises for consumption.

(1)  Except as provided in Subsection (4), a person may not bring an alcoholic product for on-premise consumption onto the premises of:

(a)  a retail licensee or person required to be licensed under this title as a retail licensee;

(b)  an establishment that conducts a business similar to a retail licensee;

(c)  an event where an alcoholic product is sold, offered for sale, or furnished under a single event permit or temporary beer event permit issued under this title; or

(d)  an establishment open to the general public.

(2)  Except as provided in Subsection (4), the following may not allow a person to bring onto its premises an alcoholic product for on-premise consumption or allow consumption of an alcoholic product brought onto its premises in violation of this section:

(a)  a retail licensee or a person required to be licensed under this title as a retail licensee;

(b)  an establishment that conducts a business similar to a retail licensee;

(c)  a single event permittee or temporary beer event permittee;

(d)  an establishment open to the general public; or

(e)  staff of a person listed in Subsections (2)(a) through (d).

(3)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(c)(i)(A), a person may not consume an alcoholic product in a limousine or chartered bus if the limousine or chartered bus drops off a passenger at a location from which the passenger departs in a private vehicle.

(4) (a)  A person may bring bottled wine onto the premises of the following and consume the wine pursuant to Subsection 32B-5-307:

(i)  a full-service restaurant licensee;

(ii)  a limited restaurant licensee;

(iii)  a club licensee; or

(iv)  a person operating under a resort spa sublicense.

(b)  A passenger of a limousine may bring onto, possess, and consume an alcoholic product on the limousine if:

(i)  the travel of the limousine begins and ends at:

(A)  the residence of the passenger;

(B)  the hotel of the passenger, if the passenger is a registered guest of the hotel; or

(C)  the temporary domicile of the passenger; and

(ii)  the driver of the limousine is separated from the passengers by partition or other means approved by the department.

(c)  A passenger of a chartered bus may bring onto, possess, and consume an alcoholic product on the chartered bus:

(i) (A)  but may consume only during travel to a specified destination of the chartered bus and not during travel back to the place where the travel begins; or

(B)  if the travel of the chartered bus begins and ends at:

(I)  the residence of the passenger;

(II)  the hotel of the passenger, if the passenger is a registered guest of the hotel; or

(III)  the temporary domicile of the passenger; and

(ii)  if the chartered bus has a nondrinking designee other than the driver traveling on the chartered bus to monitor consumption.

(5)  A person may bring onto any premises, possess, and consume an alcoholic product at a private event.

(6)  The restrictions of Subsections (2) and (3) apply to a resort licensee or person operating under a sublicense in relationship to:

(a)  the boundary of a resort building; or

(b)  a sublicense premises.

