23-13-17.   Spotlighting of coyote, red fox, striped skunk, and raccoon --
County ordinances -- Permits.
(1)  Spotlighting may be used to hunt coyote, red fox, striped skunk, or
raccoon where allowed by a county ordinance enacted pursuant to this section.
(2)  The ordinance shall provide that:
(a)  any artificial light used to spotlight coyote, red fox, striped skunk, or
raccoon must be carried by the hunter;
(b)  a motor vehicle headlight or light attached to or powered by a motor
vehicle may not be used to spotlight the animal; and
(c)  while hunting with the use of an artificial light, the hunter may not
occupy or operate any motor vehicle.
(3)  For purposes of the county ordinance, "motor vehicle" shall have the
meaning as defined in Section 41-6a-102.
(4)  The ordinance may specify:
(a)  the time of day and seasons when spotlighting is permitted;
(b)  areas closed or open to spotlighting within the unincorporated area of
the county;
(c)  safety zones within which spotlighting is prohibited;
(d)  the weapons permitted; and
(e)  penalties for violation of the ordinance.
(5) (a)  A county may restrict the number of hunters engaging in spotlighting
by requiring a permit to spotlight and issuing a limited number of permits.
(b) (i)  A fee may be charged for a spotlighting permit.
(ii)  Any permit fee shall be established by the county ordinance.
(iii)  Revenues generated by the permit fee shall be remitted to the Division
of Wildlife Resources for deposit into the Wildlife Resources Account, except
the Wildlife Board may allow any county that enacts an ordinance pursuant to
this section to retain a reasonable amount to pay for the costs of
administering and enforcing the ordinance, provided this use of the permit
revenues does not affect federal funds received by the state under 16 U.S.C.
Sec. 669 et seq., Wildlife Restoration Act and 16 U.S.C. Sec. 777 et seq.,
Sport Fish Restoration Act.
(6)  A county may require hunters to notify the county sheriff of the time and
place they will be engaged in spotlighting.
(7)  The requirement that a county ordinance must be enacted before a person
may use spotlighting to hunt coyote, red fox, striped skunk, or raccoon does
not apply to:
(a)  a person or his agent who is lawfully acting to protect his crops or
domestic animals from predation by those animals; or
(b)  an animal damage control agent acting in his official capacity under a
memorandum of agreement with the division.
