19-5-110.   Designation by governor of areas with quality control problems
-- Classification of waters -- Adoption of standards of quality.
(1)  The governor may identify and designate by boundary, or make a
determination not to designate, areas within the state which, as a result of
urban-industrial concentration or other factors, have substantial water
quality control problems, and designate planning agencies and waste treatment
management agencies for these areas.
(2)  The board may group the waters of the state into classes according to
their present most reasonable uses, and after public hearing, upgrade and
reclassify from time to time the waters of the state to the extent that it is
practical and in the public interest.
(3) (a)  The board may establish standards of quality for each classification
consistent with most reasonable present and future uses of  the waters, and
the standards may be modified or changed from time to time.
(b)  Prior to classifying waters, setting quality standards or modifying or
repealing them the board shall conduct public hearings for the consideration,
adoption, or amendment of the classifications of waters and standards of
purity and quality.
(c)  The notice shall specify the waters concerning which a classification is
sought to be made for which standards are sought to be adopted and the time,
date, and place of the hearing.
(d)  The notice shall be:
(i)  published:
(A)  at least twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area
affected; and
(B)  as required in Section 45-1-101; and
(ii)  mailed at least 30 days before the public hearing to the chief executive
of each political subdivision of the area affected and to other persons the
board has reason to believe will be affected by the classification and the
setting of standards.
(4) (a)  The adoption of standards of quality for the waters of the state and
classification of  the waters or any modification or change in classification
shall be effectuated by an order of the board which shall be published:
(i)  in a newspaper of general circulation in the area affected; and
(ii)  as required in Section 45-1-101.
(b)  In classifying waters and setting standards of water quality, adopting
rules, or making any modification or change in classification or standards,
the board shall allow and announce a reasonable time, not exceeding statutory
deadlines contained in the federal Clean Water Act, for persons discharging
wastes into the waters of the state to comply with the classification or
standards and may, after public hearing if requested by the permittee, set and
revise schedules of compliance and include these schedules within the terms
and conditions of permits for the discharge of pollutants.
(5)  Any discharge in accord with classification or standards authorized by a
permit is not pollution for the purpose of this chapter.
