19-5-115.   Violations -- Penalties -- Civil actions by board -- Ordinances
and rules of political subdivisions.
(1)  The terms "knowingly," "willfully," and "criminal negligence" shall mean
as defined in Section 76-2-103.
(2)  Any person who violates this chapter, or any permit, rule, or order
adopted under it, upon a showing that the violation occurred, is subject in a
civil proceeding to a civil penalty not to exceed $10,000 per day of
violation.
(3) (a)  A person is guilty of a class A misdemeanor and is subject to
imprisonment under Section 76-3-204 and a fine not exceeding $25,000 per day
who with criminal negligence:
(i)  discharges pollutants in violation of Subsection 19-5-107(1) or in
violation of any condition or limitation included in a permit issued under
Subsection 19-5-107(3);
(ii)  violates Section 19-5-113;
(iii)  violates a pretreatment standard or toxic effluent standard for
publicly owned treatment works; or
(iv)  manages sewage sludge in violation of this chapter or rules adopted
under it.
(b) A person is guilty of a third degree felony and is subject to imprisonment
under Section 76-3-203 and a fine not to exceed $50,000 per day of violation
who knowingly:
(i)  discharges pollutants in violation of Subsection 19-5-107(1) or in
violation of any condition or limitation included in a permit issued under
Subsection 19-5-107(3);
(ii)  violates Section 19-5-113;
(iii)  violates a pretreatment standard or toxic effluent standard for
publicly-owned treatment works; or
(iv)  manages sewage sludge in violation of this chapter or rules adopted
under it.
(4)  A person is guilty of a third degree felony and subject to imprisonment
under Section 76-3-203 and shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $10,000
per day of violation if that person knowingly:
(a)  makes a false material statement, representation, or certification in any
application, record, report, plan, or other document filed or required to be
maintained under this chapter, or by any permit, rule, or order issued under
it; or
(b) falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring
device or method required to be maintained under this chapter.
(5) (a)  As used in this section:
(i)  "Organization" means a legal entity, other than a government, established
or organized for any purpose, and includes a corporation, company,
association, firm, partnership, joint stock company, foundation, institution,
trust, society, union, or any other association of persons.
(ii)  "Serious bodily injury" means bodily injury which involves a substantial
risk of death, unconsciousness, extreme physical pain, protracted and obvious
disfigurement, or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily
member, organ, or mental faculty.
(b)  A person is guilty of a second degree felony and, upon conviction, is
subject to imprisonment under Section 76-3-203 and a fine of not more than
$250,000 if that person:
(i)  knowingly violates this chapter, or any permit, rule, or order adopted
under it; and
(ii)  knows at that time that he is placing another person in imminent danger
of death or serious bodily injury.
(c)  If a person is an organization, it shall, upon conviction of violating
Subsection (a), be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000,000.
(d) (i)  A defendant who is an individual is considered to have acted
knowingly if:
(A)  the defendant's conduct placed another person in imminent danger of death
or serious bodily injury; and
(B)  the defendant was aware of or believed that there was an imminent danger
of death or serious bodily injury to another person.
(ii)  Knowledge possessed by a person other than the defendant may not be
attributed to the defendant.
(iii)  Circumstantial evidence may be used to prove that the defendant
possessed actual knowledge, including evidence that the defendant took
affirmative steps to be shielded from receiving relevant information.
(e) (i)  It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under Subsection (5) that
the conduct charged was consented to by the person endangered and that the
danger and conduct charged were reasonably foreseeable hazards of:
(A)  an occupation, a business, or a profession; or
(B)  medical treatment or medical or scientific experimentation conducted by
professionally approved methods and the other person was aware of the risks
involved prior to giving consent.
(ii)  The defendant has the burden of proof to establish any affirmative
defense under this Subsection (e) and must prove that defense by a
preponderance of the evidence.
(6)  For purposes of Subsections 19-5-115(3) through (5), a single operational
upset which leads to simultaneous violations of more than one pollutant
parameter shall be treated as a single violation.
(7) (a)  The board may begin a civil action for appropriate relief, including
a permanent or temporary injunction, for any violation or threatened violation
for which it is authorized to issue a compliance order under Section 19-5-111.
(b)  Actions shall be brought in the district court where the violation or
threatened violation occurs.
(8) (a)  The attorney general is the legal advisor for the board and its
executive secretary and shall defend them in all actions or proceedings
brought against them.
(b)  The county attorney or district attorney as appropriate under Sections
17-18-1, 17-18-1.5, and 17-18-1.7 in the county in which a cause of action
arises, shall bring any action, civil or criminal, requested by the board, to
abate a condition that exists in violation of, or to prosecute for the
violation of, or to enforce, the laws or the standards, orders, and rules of
the board or the executive secretary issued under this chapter.
(c)  The board may itself initiate any action under this section and be
represented by the attorney general.
(9)  If any person fails to comply with a cease and desist order that is not
subject to a stay pending administrative or judicial review, the board may,
through its executive secretary, initiate an action for and be entitled to
injunctive relief to prevent any further or continued violation of the order.
(10)  Any political subdivision of the state may enact and enforce ordinances
or rules for the implementation of this chapter that are not inconsistent with
this chapter.
(11) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (b), all penalties assessed and
collected under the authority of this section shall be deposited in the
General Fund.
(b)  The department may reimburse itself and local governments from monies
collected from civil penalties for extraordinary expenses incurred in
environmental enforcement activities.
(c)  The department shall regulate reimbursements by making rules that:
(i)  define qualifying environmental enforcement activities; and
(ii)  define qualifying extraordinary expenses.
