19-5-121.   Underground wastewater disposal systems -- Certification required to design, inspect, maintain, or conduct percolation or soil tests -- Exemptions -- Rules -- Fees.

(1)  As used in this section, "maintain" does not include the pumping of an underground wastewater disposal system.

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsections (2)(b) and (2)(c), beginning January 1, 2002, a person may not design, inspect, maintain, or conduct percolation or soil tests for an underground wastewater disposal system, without first obtaining certification from the board.

(b)  An individual is not required to obtain certification from the board to maintain an underground wastewater disposal system that serves a noncommercial, private residence owned by the individual or a member of the individual's family and in which the individual or a member of the individual's family resides or an employee of the individual resides without payment of rent.

(c)  The board shall make rules allowing an uncertified individual to conduct percolation or soil tests for an underground wastewater disposal system that serves a noncommercial, private residence owned by the individual and in which the individual resides or intends to reside, or which is intended for use by an employee of the individual without payment of rent, if the individual:

(i)  has the capability of properly conducting the tests; and

(ii)  is supervised by a certified individual when conducting the tests.

(3) (a)  The board shall adopt and enforce rules for the certification and recertification of individuals who design, inspect, maintain, or conduct percolation or soil tests for underground wastewater disposal systems.

(b) (i)  The rules shall specify requirements for education and training and the type and duration of experience necessary to obtain certification.

(ii)  The rules shall recognize the following in meeting the requirements for certification:

(A)  the experience of a contractor licensed under Title 58, Chapter 55, Utah Construction Trades Licensing Act, who has five or more years of experience installing underground wastewater disposal systems;

(B)  the experience of an environmental health scientist licensed under Title 58, Chapter 20a, Environmental Health Scientist Act; or

(C)  the educational background of a professional engineer licensed under Title 58, Chapter 22, Professional Engineers and Professional Land Surveyors Licensing Act.

(iii)  If eligibility for certification is based on experience, the applicant for certification shall show proof of experience.

(4)  The department may establish fees in accordance with Section 63J-1-504 for the testing and certification of individuals who design, inspect, maintain, or conduct percolation or soil tests for underground wastewater disposal systems.



Amended by Chapter 297, 2011 General Session

