Article X,  Section 5.   [State School Fund and Uniform School Fund --
Establishment and use -- Debt guaranty.]
(1)  There is established a permanent State School Fund which shall consist of
revenue from the following sources:
(a)  proceeds from the sales of all lands granted by the United States to this
state for the support of the public elementary and secondary schools;
(b)  5% of the net proceeds from the sales of United States public lands lying
within this state;
(c)  all revenues derived from nonrenewable resources on state lands, other
than sovereign lands and lands granted for other specific purposes;
(d)  all revenues derived from the use of school trust lands;
(e)  revenues appropriated by the Legislature; and
(f)  other revenues and assets received by the fund under any other provision
of law or by bequest or donation.
(2) (a)  The State School Fund principal shall be safely invested and held by
the state in perpetuity.
(b)  Only the interest and dividends received from investment of the State
School Fund may be expended for the support of the public education system as
defined in Article X, Section 2 of this constitution.
(c)  The Legislature may make appropriations from school trust land revenues
to provide funding necessary for the proper administration and management of
those lands consistent with the state's fiduciary responsibilities towards the
beneficiaries of the school land trust. Unexpended balances remaining from the
appropriation at the end of each fiscal year shall be deposited in the State
School Fund.
(d)  The State School Fund shall be guaranteed by the state against loss or
diversion.
(3)  There is established a Uniform School Fund which shall consist of revenue
from the following sources:
(a)  interest and dividends from the State School Fund;
(b)  revenues appropriated by the Legislature; and
(c)  other revenues  received by the fund under any other provision of law or
by donation.
(4)  The Uniform School Fund shall be maintained and used for the support of
the state's public education system as defined in Article X, Section 2 of this
constitution and apportioned as the Legislature shall provide.
(5) (a) Notwithstanding Article VI, Section 29, the State may guarantee the
debt of school districts created in accordance with Article XIV, Section 3,
and may guarantee debt incurred to refund the school district debt.  Any debt
guaranty, the school district debt guaranteed thereby, or any borrowing of the
state undertaken to facilitate the payment of the state's obligation under any
debt guaranty shall not be included as a debt of the state for purposes of the
1.5% limitation of Article XIV, Section 1.
(b)  The Legislature may provide that reimbursement to the state shall be
obtained from monies which otherwise would be used for the support of the
educational programs of the school district which incurred the debt with
respect to which a payment under the state's guaranty was made.
