31A-27a-206.   Confidentiality.

(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), in a delinquency proceeding or a judicial review under Section 31A-27a-201:

(i)  all records of the insurer, department files, court records and papers, and other documents, so far as they pertain to or are a part of the record of the proceedings, are confidential; and

(ii)  a paper filed with the clerk of the Third District Court for Salt Lake County shall be held by the clerk in a confidential file as permitted by law.

(b)  The items listed in Subsection (1)(a) are subject to Subsection (1)(a):

(i)  except to the extent necessary to obtain compliance with an order entered in connection with the proceeding; and

(ii)  unless and until:

(A)  the Third District Court for Salt Lake County, after hearing argument in chambers, orders otherwise;

(B)  the insurer requests that the matter be made public; or

(C)  the commissioner applies for an order under Section 31A-27a-207.

(2) (a)  If the recipient agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the document, material, or other information, the commissioner or rehabilitator may share a document, materials, or other information in the possession, custody, or control of the department, pertaining to an insurer that is the subject of a delinquency proceeding under this chapter with:

(i)  another state, federal, and international regulatory agency;

(ii)  the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and its affiliates or subsidiaries;

(iii)  a state, federal, and international law enforcement authority;

(iv)  an auditor appointed by the receivership court in accordance with Section 31A-27a-805; or

(v)  a representative of an affected guaranty association.

(b)  If the domiciliary receiver believes that certain information is sensitive, the receiver may share that information subject to a continuation of the confidentiality obligations beyond the period allowed in Subsection (3).

(c)  This section does not limit the power of the commissioner to disclose information under other applicable law.

(3) (a)  A domiciliary receiver shall permit a commissioner or a guaranty association of another state to obtain a listing of policyholders and certificate holders residing in the requestor's state, including current addresses and summary policy information, if the commissioner or the guaranty association of another state agrees:

(i)  to maintain the confidentiality of the record; and

(ii)  that the record will be used only for regulatory or guaranty association purposes.

(b)  Access to a record under this Subsection (3) may be limited to normal business hours.

(c)  If the domiciliary receiver believes that certain information described in this Subsection (3) is sensitive and disclosure might cause a diminution in recovery, the receiver may apply for a protective order imposing additional restrictions on access.

(4) (a)  The confidentiality obligations imposed by this section shall end upon the entry of an order of liquidation against the insurer, unless:

(i)  otherwise agreed to by the parties; or

(ii)  pursuant to an order of the receivership court.

(b)  A continuation of confidentiality as provided in Subsection (2) does not apply to an insurer record necessary for a guaranty association to discharge its statutory responsibilities.

(5)  A waiver of an applicable privilege or claim of confidentiality does not occur as a result of a disclosure, or any sharing of documents, materials, or other information, made pursuant to this section.

