31A-27a-511.   Assessments.
(1)  As soon as practicable but not more than four years from the day on which
an order of receivership of an insurer issuing assessable policies is entered,
the receiver shall make a report to the receivership court setting forth:
(a)  the reasonable value of the assets of the insurer;
(b)  the insurer's probable total liabilities;
(c)  the probable aggregate amount of the assessment necessary to pay all
claims of creditors and expenses in full, including expenses of administration
and costs of collecting the assessment; and
(d)  a recommendation as to:
(i)  whether or not an assessment should be made; and
(ii)  what amount of assessment.
(2) (a)  Upon the basis of the report provided in Subsection (1), including
any supplement or amendment to the report, the receivership court may approve,
solely on application by the receiver, one or more assessments against all
members of the insurer who are subject to assessment.
(b)  An order approving an assessment under this Subsection (2) shall provide
instructions regarding:
(i)  notice of the assessment;
(ii)  deadlines for payment; and
(iii)  other instructions to the receiver for collection of the assessment.
(3)  Subject to any applicable legal limit on an ability to assess and with
due regard given to assessments that cannot be collected economically, the
aggregate assessment shall be for the amount by which the sum of the following
exceeds the value of existing assets:
(a)  probable liabilities;
(b)  the expenses of administration; and
(c)  the estimated cost of collection of the assessment.
(4) (a)  After levy of an assessment under Subsection (2), the receiver shall
petition the receivership court for an order directing each member who has not
paid the assessment pursuant to the levy to show cause why a judgment for the
failure to pay the assessment should not be entered.
(b)  At least 20 days before the return day of the order to show cause
described in Subsection (4)(a), the receiver shall give notice of the order to
show cause by:
(i)  publication or by first-class mail to each member liable on the
assessment mailed to the member's last-known address as it appears on the
insurer's records; or
(ii)  such other method of notification as the receivership court may direct.
(c)  Failure of the member or subscriber to receive the notice of the
assessment or of the order to show cause either within the time specified in
the order or at all, is no defense in a proceeding to collect the assessment.
(5)  If a member does not appear and serve verified objections upon the
receiver on or before the return day of the order to show cause under
Subsection (4):
(a)  the receivership court shall make an order adjudging the member liable
for the sum of:
(i)  the amount of the assessment against the member pursuant to Subsection
(4); and
(ii)  the costs; and
(b)  the receiver has a judgment against the member for the amount described
in Subsection (5)(a).
(6)  If on or before the return day in the order to show cause described in
Subsection (4) the member appears and serves verified objections on the
receiver, the receivership court may:
(a) (i)  hear and determine the matter; or
(ii)  appoint a referee to hear the matter; and
(b)  make such order as the facts warrant.
(7)  The receiver may enforce an order or collect a judgment under Subsection
(5) by any lawful means.
(8)  An assessment of a subscriber or member of an insurer made by the
receiver is prima facie correct if it is pursuant to the order of receivership
court:
(a)  fixing the aggregate amount of the assessment against all members or
subscribers; and
(b)  approving the classification and formula made by the receiver under this
section.
(9)  A claim filed by an assessee who fails to pay an assessment, after the
conclusion of a legal action by the assessee objecting to the assessment, is
considered a late filed claim under Section 31A-27a-701.
