31A-27a-601.   Filing of claims.

(1) (a)  Subject to the other provisions of this Subsection (1), proof of a claim shall be filed with the liquidator in the form required by Section 31A-27a-602 on or before the last day for filing specified in the notice required under Section 31A-27a-406.

(b)  The last day for filing specified in the notice may not be later than 18 months after the day on which the order of liquidation is entered unless the receivership court, for good cause shown, extends the time.

(c)  Proof of a claim for the following does not need to be filed unless the liquidator expressly requires filing of proof:

(i)  cash surrender value in life insurance and annuities;

(ii)  investment value in life insurance and annuities other than cash surrender value; and

(iii)  any other policy insuring the life of a person.

(d)  Only upon application of the liquidator, the receivership court may allow alternative procedures and requirements for the filing of proof of a claim or for allowing or proving a claim.

(e)  Upon application, if the receivership court dispenses with the requirements of filing a proof of claim by a person, class, or group of persons, a proof of claim for that person, class, or group is considered as being filed for all purposes, except that the receivership court's waiver of proof of claim requirements may not impact guaranty association proof of claim filing requirements or coverage determinations to the extent that the guaranty association statute or filing requirements are inconsistent with the receivership court's waiver of proof.

(2)  The liquidator may permit a claimant that makes a late filing to share ratably in distributions, whether past or future, as if the claim were not filed late, to the extent that the payment will not prejudice the orderly administration of the liquidation, under the following circumstances:

(a)  the eligibility to file a proof of claim was not known to the claimant, and the claimant files a proof of claim within 90 days after the day on which the claimant first learns of the eligibility;

(b) (i)  a transfer to a creditor is:

(A)  avoided under Section 31A-27a-503, 31A-27a-504, 31A-27a-506, or 31A-27a-507; or

(B)  voluntarily surrendered under Section 31A-27a-509; and

(ii)  the filing satisfies the conditions of Section 31A-27a-509; or

(c)  the valuation of security held by a secured creditor under Section 31A-27a-610 shows a deficiency and the claim for the deficiency is filed within 30 days after the valuation.

(3)  If a reinsurer's reinsurance contract terminates pursuant to Section 31A-27a-513:

(a)  a claim filed by the receiver which arises from the termination may not be considered late if the claim is filed within 90 days of the day on which the reinsurance contract terminates; and

(b)  the reinsurer shall receive a ratable share of distributions, whether past or future, as if the claim described in Subsection (3)(a) is not late.

(4)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the liquidator may petition the receivership court, subject to Section 31A-27a-107, to set a date certain after which no further claims may be filed.



Enacted by Chapter 309, 2007 General Session

