31A-27a-612.    Administration of deductible policies and insured
collateral.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Collateral" means any of the following that secures an insured's
obligation to pay or to reimburse the insurer for deductible claim payments
and to reimburse or pay to the insurer other secured obligations:
(i)  cash;
(ii)  a letter of credit of the insured;
(iii)  a surety bond posted by the insured; or
(iv)  any other form of security posted by the insured.
(b)  "Deductible claim" means a claim, including a loss or allocated loss
adjustment expense, under a deductible policy within the insured's obligation
to pay a portion of a claim or claim expense that the insurer is obligated to
pay to a person other than the insured by the deductible policy or by
operation of law.
(c) (i)  "Deductible limit" means a limit on an amount to be paid or
reimbursed by the insured under a deductible policy that is equal to or
greater than $5,000.
(ii)  A deductible limit may be any amount of the risk exposure before the
insurer agrees to become liable for the insurance risk without a right of
recoupment from the insured for the insurer's payment of claims or expenses
related to a claim under the deductible policy.
(d) (i)  "Deductible policy" means any combination of one or more policies,
endorsements, contracts, or security agreements in which the insured agrees
with the insurer to:
(A)  pay directly:
(I)  the initial portion of a claim under the policy, endorsement, contract,
or agreement up to a specified dollar amount; or
(II)  the expenses related to a claim; or
(B)  reimburse the insurer for the insurer's payment of:
(I)  a claim under the policy, endorsement, contract, or agreement up to a
specified dollar amount; or
(II)  the expenses related to a claim.
(ii)  "Deductible policy" includes a policy, endorsement, contract, or
agreement that contains an aggregate limit on the insured's liability for all
deductible claims in addition to a deductible limit for each claim.
(iii)  "Deductible policy" does not include:
(A)  a policy, endorsement, contract, or agreement that provides that the
initial portion of a covered claim shall be self-insured and the insurer has
no payment obligation within the self-insured retention;
(B)  a policy, endorsement, contract, or agreement that provides for
retrospectively rated premium payments by the insured; or
(C)  a reinsurance arrangement or agreement.
(e)  "Other secured obligation" means an obligation, such as a reinsurance or
retrospective premium obligation, that is:
(i)  payable by the insured to the insurer; and
(ii)  secured by collateral that also secures a deductible obligation.
(f)  "Uncovered claim" means a deductible claim that is secured by collateral
but that:
(i)  is not defined as a covered claim under any relevant guaranty association
statute;
(ii)  the insured fails to fund or pay; and
(iii)  is filed with the receiver pursuant to the receivership proof of claim
process.
(2) (a)  If an insurer agrees to allow an insured to fund or pay deductible
claims directly or through a third party administrator, except as prohibited
by applicable workers' compensation insurance law:
(i)  the insured shall fulfill the insured's obligations notwithstanding a
delinquency proceeding; and
(ii)  the receiver shall allow the funding or payment agreements to continue
notwithstanding a delinquency proceeding.
(b)  To the extent the insured funds or pays a deductible claim, the insured's
funding or payment of a deductible claim:
(i)  bars any deductible claim in a delinquency proceeding including a claim
by the insured or third party claimant; and
(ii)  extinguishes the obligation, if any, of the receiver or an affected
guaranty association to pay the deductible claim.
(c)  The insured is responsible for providing timely notice to the receiver
and to all affected guaranty associations for any claim that may exceed the
deductible limit.
(d)  A charge of any kind may not be made against a receiver or an affected
guaranty association on the basis of an insured's funding or payment of a
deductible claim.
(e)  The failure of an insured to fulfill the insured's obligation pursuant to
a funding agreement entitles the following to the full benefit of all
collateral and other rights of recovery and reimbursement under the other
provisions of this section:
(i)  the receiver that pays a deductible claim; or
(ii)  pursuant to Subsection (6)(b), an affected guaranty association that
pays a deductible claim.
(3)  Any reimbursement owed to an insurer under a deductible policy issued by
an insurer subject to a delinquency proceeding shall be administered as
follows:
(a) (i)  A reimbursement from an insured for the payment of a deductible claim
is a general asset of the estate to the extent that:
(A)  the insolvent insurer is owed reimbursement for deductible payments made
before the entry of a final order of liquidation; or
(B)  the receiver is owed reimbursement for a deductible payment.
(ii)  The receiver shall determine if a reimbursement is a general asset of
the estate in accordance with this section.
(b)  The receiver shall bill an insured for reimbursement of a deductible
claim:
(i)  paid by the insurer before the commencement of delinquency proceedings;
(ii)  paid by an affected guaranty association upon receipt of notice of a
reimbursable payment; or
(iii)  paid or allowed by the receiver.
(c)  The receiver may take all commercially reasonable actions necessary to
collect a reimbursement owed if the insured does not make payment within:
(i)  the time specified in the deductible policy; or
(ii)  within 60 days after the day of billing if no time is specified in the
deductible policy.
(d)  The following is not a defense to the insured's reimbursement obligation
under a deductible policy:
(i)  the insolvency of the insurer;
(ii)  the insurer's inability to perform any of the insurer's obligations
under a deductible policy; or
(iii)  an allegation of improper handling or payment of a deductible claim by:
(A)  the insurer;
(B)  the receiver;
(C)  an affected guaranty association; or
(D)  any combination of Subsections (3)(d)(iii)(A) through (C).
(4)  The receiver shall adjust and pay uncovered claims as provided in
Subsection (5).  The receiver's obligation under this Subsection (4)
terminates once all available collateral is exhausted.  Once all available
collateral is exhausted, any unpaid uncovered claims shall continue to be
handled as a proof of claim in the receivership estate.
(5) (a) (i)  Except where a deductible policy or other agreement conflicts
with this section, any collateral held by an insurer subject to a delinquency
proceeding under this chapter held under a deductible policy issued by the
insurer, held for other secured obligations, or held under both shall be
maintained and administered in accordance with:
(A)  the deductible policy;
(B)  any applicable security agreement;
(C)  any agreement regarding other secured obligations; or
(D)  any applicable combination of the deductible policy and other agreement.
(ii)  This Subsection (5) applies to collateral regardless of whether the
collateral is held by, for the benefit of, or assigned to the insurer under a
deductible policy, agreement, or other secured obligation.
(b) (i)  Subject to this Subsection (5), collateral shall be used to secure
the insured's obligation to fund or reimburse deductible claims or other
secured obligations or other payment obligations under Subsection (8).
(ii)  Collateral shall be considered as property of the receivership estate
solely for the purpose of the receiver administering and handling the
collateral.
(iii)  Collateral may not be considered as a general asset of the estate,
except as provided in Subsections (5)(c) and (8).
(c) (i)  Subject to Subsection (5)(c)(ii), collateral held to secure the
insured's performance of obligations is a general asset of the estate to the
extent that:
(A)  the insurer pays or has paid a deductible claim before the day on which a
final order of liquidation is entered and the deductible is not reimbursed by
the insured;
(B)  the receiver pays or has paid a deductible claim; or
(C)  the insured fails to pay or reimburse to the insurer other secured
obligations to the extent the payment or reimbursement is due or payable
before the day on which a final order of liquidation is entered and remains
unpaid.
(ii)  The receiver shall determine the extent that collateral described in
this Subsection (5)(c) is a general asset.
(d)  The receiver shall draw down collateral to the extent necessary if the
insured fails to:
(i)  perform the insured's funding or payment obligations under any deductible
policy;
(ii)  pay deductible reimbursements within:
(A)  the time specified in the deductible policy; or
(B)  60 days after the date of the billing if no time is specified in the
deductible policy;
(iii)  timely fund any other secured obligation; or
(iv)  timely pay expenses defined in Subsection (8).
(e) (i)  The receiver shall first apply or reserve collateral to the insured's
obligations referenced in Subsections (5)(c)(i)(A) and (C).
(ii)  The receiver shall use any collateral remaining after the application of
Subsection (5)(e)(i) to:
(A)  reimburse deductible claims submitted by an affected guaranty
association;
(B)  adjust and pay uncovered claims allowed by the liquidator;
(C)  pay other secured obligations of the insured that become due and payable
after the date of liquidation; or
(D)  pay expenses as defined in Subsection (8).
(iii)  The receiver shall:
(A)  use collateral under Subsection (5)(e)(ii) in the order that the
deductible claims or charges against the collateral listed in Subsection
(5)(e)(ii) are received and accepted by the receiver; and
(B)  continue until all valid deductible claims or charges are fully
reimbursed or paid or the collateral is exhausted.
(iv)  If there are amounts payable or reimbursable under this Subsection
(5)(e) and the receiver for any reason has been precluded from drawing the
collateral, the receiver may establish a reserve against the collateral for
those amounts.  Only the collateral exceeding the reserve shall be considered
remaining collateral under this Subsection (5)(e).
(f)  Once all claims, other secured obligations, or expenses under Subsection
(8) covered by collateral have been paid and the receiver is satisfied that no
new claims, other secured obligations, or expenses under Subsection (5)(e) may
be presented, the receiver shall release any remaining collateral to the
insured in accordance with the deductible policy or agreement relating to
other secured obligations.
(6)  To the extent an affected guaranty association pays a deductible claim
for which the insurer would have been entitled to reimbursement from the
insured, the following provisions apply:
(a) (i)  When an affected guaranty association pays a deductible claim, the
affected guaranty association shall report the claim to the receiver.
(ii)  The receiver shall collect from the insured all deductible amounts due
as reimbursement.  Subject to Subsection (8), when the insured reimbursements
are collected, the receiver shall reimburse the affected guaranty association
for deductible claims.
(iii)  A reimbursement paid to the affected guaranty association pursuant to
this Subsection (6)(a) may not be treated as a distribution under Section 31A-
27a-703 or as an early access payment under Section 31A-27a-704.
(iv)  If an affected guaranty association pays a deductible claim that is also
subject to reimbursement under statutory net worth provisions, the affected
guaranty association shall:
(A)  bill the insured directly;
(B)  notify the insurer of the payment; and
(C)  notify the receiver of any receipt of a reimbursement under net worth
provisions, which shall be credited against the insured's deductible
reimbursement obligations to the extent that the reimbursement applies to
deductible claims.
(b) (i)  This Subsection (6)(b) applies if:
(A)  the receiver declines to seek reimbursement from the insured or from any
available collateral;
(B)  the receiver is unsuccessful in obtaining reimbursement from the insured
or from any available collateral; or
(C)  the receiver fails to take available commercially reasonable actions to
collect a reimbursement owed.
(ii)  The receiver shall notify an affected guaranty association if the
receiver declines to seek or is unsuccessful in obtaining reimbursement from
the insured or from any available collateral.
(iii)  If a condition described in Subsection (6)(b)(i) exists,
notwithstanding whether the affected guaranty association receives the notice
required by Subsection (6)(b)(ii), an affected guaranty association:
(A)  may, after notice to the receiver, collect a reimbursement due from the
insured for the deductible claims the affected guaranty association has paid:
(I)  on the same basis as the receiver; and
(II)  with the same rights and remedies; and
(B)  shall report any amounts collected under Subsection (6)(b)(iii)(A) from
each insured to the receiver.
(iv)  The receiver shall provide an affected guaranty association with
available information needed to collect a reimbursement due from the insured.
(v)  When an affected guaranty association undertakes to collect
reimbursements from the insured, the affected guaranty association shall
notify all other guaranty associations who have paid deductible claims on
behalf of the same insured that this action is being taken.
(vi)  An amount collected by the affected guaranty association pursuant to
this Subsection (6)(b) may not be treated as a distribution under Section 31A-
27a-703 or as an early access payment under Section 31A-27a-704.
(vii)  An affected guaranty association may net an expense incurred in
collecting a reimbursement against that reimbursement.
(c)  The receiver shall provide any affected guaranty associations with
periodic reports concerning the receiver's activities in discharging
responsibilities under this section, which shall include an accounting for the
receiver's deductible billing and collection activities.
(d)  To the extent that an affected guaranty association pays a deductible
claim that is not reimbursed either from collateral or by insured payments,
the affected guaranty association has a claim for those amounts in the
delinquency proceeding.  Any claim by an affected guaranty association shall
be reduced by reimbursed or unreimbursed expenses described in Subsection (8)
incurred by the receiver.
(e) (i)  If any collateral is held under a deductible policy at the time the
receiver files an application to terminate the delinquency proceeding, and it
appears that an additional deductible claim may be payable by an affected
guaranty association under the deductible policy, the receiver shall:
(A)  transfer to an affected guaranty association the portion of the
collateral that is reasonably estimated to be necessary to pay the deductible
claim; and
(B)  release any remaining portion of the collateral to the insured.
(ii)  An affected guaranty association shall handle any collateral transferred
from the receiver as provided in this section.
(f)  Nothing in this Subsection (6) limits any rights of the receiver or an
affected guaranty association under applicable statutory law to obtain
reimbursement from an insured for a claims payment made by the affected
guaranty association under a policy of the insurer or for the affected
guaranty association's related expenses.
(7) (a)  The receiver shall periodically adjust the collateral being held
using accepted actuarial principles and practices.
(b)  The receiver may impose a discretionary safety margin for collateral
maintained.
(c)  The receiver may not be required to review collateral more than once a
year.
(d)  The receiver shall inform any affected guaranty association and the
insured of any collateral reviews, including the basis for any proposed
adjustment.
(8)  The receiver may do the following in relation to reasonable expenses
incurred in fulfilling the receiver's responsibilities under this section:
(a)  deduct the expense from reimbursements;
(b)  deduct the expense from the collateral; or
(c)  recover the expense through billings to the insured.
(9) (a)  A receiver shall meet the receiver's obligations under this section
in a timely manner.
(b)  If an affected guaranty association believes that a receiver is not
meeting an obligation under this section in a timely manner, upon motion by an
affected guaranty association, a receivership court may grant relief to the
affected guaranty association if the receivership court finds that the
receiver is not meeting an obligation under this section in a timely manner.
(10)  This section modifies Subsection 31A-22-1010(2)(b) to the extent
necessary to permit an insured to participate in the payment of the insurance
claims and losses by reimbursement of a receiver or affected guaranty
association as provided in this section.
