31A-27a-703.   Partial and final distributions of assets.

(1) (a)  With the approval of the receivership court, a liquidator may declare and pay:

(i)  one or more partial distributions on claims as those claims are allowed; and

(ii)  a final distribution.

(b)  All claims allowed within a priority class shall be paid at substantially the same percentage.

(c)  A distribution under this section to a guaranty association is not an advance under Section 31A-27a-704.

(2)  In determining the percentage of distributions to be paid on a claim, the liquidator may consider:

(a)  the estimated value of the insurer's property, including estimated reinsurance recoverables in connection with the insurer's estimated liabilities for:

(i)  unpaid losses and loss expenses; and

(ii)  incurred but not reported losses and loss expenses; and

(b)  the estimated value of the insurer's liabilities, including estimated liabilities for:

(i)  unpaid losses and loss expenses; and

(ii)  incurred but not reported losses and loss expenses.

(3)  Distribution of property in kind may be made at valuations set by agreement:

(a)  between the liquidator and the creditor; and

(b)  as approved by the receivership court.

(4) (a)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1) and Part 6, Claims, the liquidator may pay benefits under a workers' compensation policy after the day on which the liquidation order is entered if:

(i)  there is an acceptance of liability by the insurer, and no bona fide dispute exists;

(ii)  payment is commenced before the entry of the liquidation order; and

(iii)  future or past indemnity or medical payments are due.

(b)  A claim payment under this Subsection (4) may continue until the applicable guaranty association:

(i)  assumes responsibility for the claim payments; or

(ii)  determines the claim is not a covered claim under its guaranty association law.

(c)  A claim payment or related expense made under this Subsection (4) may be treated as early access distribution under Section 31A-27a-704 in accordance with an agreement with the guaranty association responsible for the payment.



Enacted by Chapter 309, 2007 General Session

