11-25-11.   Comprehensive financing program ordinance -- Contents.
Prior to the issuance of any bonds or bond anticipation notes of the agency
for residential rehabilitation, the agency shall by ordinance adopt a
comprehensive residential rehabilitation financing program, including:
(1)  Criteria for selection of residential rehabilitation areas by the agency
including findings by the agency that:
(a)  There are a substantial number of deteriorating structures in the area
which do not conform to community standards for decent, safe, sanitary
housing.
(b)  Financial assistance from the agency for residential rehabilitation is
necessary to arrest the deterioration of the area.
(c)  Financing of residential rehabilitation in the area is economically
feasible.  These findings are not required, however, when the residential
rehabilitation area is located within the boundaries of a project area covered
by an urban renewal project area plan adopted in accordance with Section
17C-2-107.
(2)  Procedures for selection of residential rehabilitation areas by the
agency including:
(a)  Provisions for citizen participation in selection of residential
rehabilitation areas.
(b)  Provisions for a public hearing by the agency prior to selection of any
particular residential rehabilitation area.
(3)  A commitment that rehabilitation standards will be enforced on each
residence for which financing is provided.
(4)  Guidelines for financing residential rehabilitation which shall be
subject to the following limitations:
(a)  Outstanding loans on the property to be rehabilitated including the
amount of the loans for rehabilitation, shall not exceed 80% of the
anticipated after-rehabilitation value of the property to be rehabilitated,
except that the agency may authorize loans of up to 95% of the anticipated
after-rehabilitation value of the property if loans are made for the purpose
of rehabilitating the property for residential purposes, there is demonstrated
need for such higher limit, and there is a high probability that the value of
the property will not be impaired during the term of the loan.
(b)  The maximum repayment period for residential rehabilitation loans shall
be 20 years or 3/4 of the economic life of the property, whichever is less.
(c)  The maximum amount loan for rehabilitation for each dwelling unit and for
each commercial unit which is, or is part of a "residence" as defined in this
chapter, shall be established by resolution of the agency.
