20A-2-202.   Registration by mail.

(1) (a)  A citizen who will be qualified to vote at the next election may register by mail.

(b)  To register by mail, a citizen shall complete and sign the by-mail registration form and mail or deliver it to the county clerk of the county in which the citizen resides.

(c)  In order to register to vote in a particular election, the citizen shall:

(i)  address the by-mail voter registration form to the county clerk; and

(ii)  ensure that it is postmarked on or before the voter registration deadline.

(d)  The citizen has effectively registered to vote under this section only when the county clerk's office has received a correctly completed by-mail voter registration form.

(2)  Upon receipt of a correctly completed by-mail voter registration form, the county clerk shall:

(a)  enter the applicant's name on the list of registered voters for the voting precinct in which the applicant resides; and

(b)  mail confirmation of registration to the newly registered voter after entering the applicant's voting precinct number on that copy.

(3) (a)  If the county clerk receives a correctly completed by-mail voter registration form that is postmarked after the voter registration deadline, the county clerk shall:

(i)  register the applicant after the next election; and

(ii)  if possible, promptly phone or mail a notice to the applicant before the election, informing the applicant that his registration will not be effective until after the election.

(b)  When the county clerk receives a correctly completed by-mail voter registration form at least seven days before an election that is postmarked on or before the date of the voter registration deadline, the county clerk shall:

(i)  process the by-mail voter registration form; and

(ii)  record the new voter in the official register.

(4)  If the county clerk determines that a registration form received by mail or otherwise is incorrect because of an error or because it is incomplete, the county clerk shall mail notice to the person attempting to register, informing him that he has not been registered because of an error or because the form is incomplete.



Amended by Chapter 45, 2009 General Session

