20A-2-205.   Registration at voter registration agencies.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Discretionary voter registration agency" means each office designated by the county clerk under Part 3, County Clerk's Voter Registration Responsibilities, to provide by-mail voter registration forms to the public.

(b)  "Public assistance agency" means each office in Utah that provides:

(i)  public assistance; or

(ii)  state funded programs primarily engaged in providing services to people with disabilities.

(2)  Any person may obtain and complete a by-mail registration form at a public assistance agency or discretionary voter registration agency.

(3)  Each public assistance agency and discretionary voter registration agency shall provide, either as part of existing forms or on a separate form, the following information in substantially the following form:

"REGISTERING TO VOTE

If you are not registered to vote where you live now, would you like to apply to register to vote here today? (Applying to register to vote or declining to register to vote will not affect the amount of assistance that you will be provided by this agency.) Yes____ No____ IF YOU DO NOT CHECK EITHER BOX, YOU WILL BE CONSIDERED TO HAVE DECIDED NOT TO REGISTER TO VOTE AT THIS TIME.  If you would like help in filling out the voter registration application form, we will help you.  The decision about whether or not to seek or accept help is yours.  You may fill out the application form in private.  If you believe that someone has interfered with your right to register or to decline to register to vote, your right to privacy in deciding whether or not to register, or in applying to register to vote, or your right to choose your own political party or other political preference, you may file a complaint with the Office of the Lieutenant Governor, State Capitol Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 84114.  (801) 538-1040."

(4)  Unless a person applying for service or assistance from a public assistance agency or discretionary voter registration agency declines, in writing, to register to vote, each public assistance agency and discretionary voter registration agency shall:

(a)  distribute a by-mail voter registration form with  each application for service or assistance provided by the agency or office;

(b)  assist applicants in completing the voter registration form unless the applicant refuses assistance;

(c)  accept completed forms for transmittal to the appropriate election official; and

(d)  transmit a copy of each voter registration form to the appropriate election official within five days after it is received by the division.

(5)  A person in a public assistance agency or a discretionary voter registration agency that helps a person complete the voter registration form may not:

(a)  seek to influence an applicant's political preference or party registration;

(b)  display any political preference or party allegiance;

(c)  make any statement to an applicant or take any action that has the purpose or effect of discouraging the applicant from registering to vote; or

(d)  make any statement to an applicant or take any action that has the purpose or effect of leading the applicant to believe that a decision to register or not to register has any bearing upon the availability of services or benefits.

(6)  Upon receipt of a correctly completed voter registration form, the county clerk shall:

(a)  enter the applicant's name on the list of registered voters for the voting precinct in which the applicant resides; and

(b)  notify the applicant of registration.

(7) (a)  If the county clerk receives a correctly completed voter registration form that is dated after the voter registration deadline, the county clerk shall:

(i)  register the applicant after the next election; and

(ii)  if possible, promptly phone or mail a notice to the applicant before the election, informing the applicant that his registration will not be effective until after the election.

(b)  When the county clerk receives a correctly completed voter registration form at least seven days before an election that is dated on or before the voter registration deadline, the county clerk shall:

(i)  process the voter registration form; and

(ii)  record the new voter in the official register.

(8)  If the county clerk determines that a voter registration form received from a public assistance agency or discretionary voter registration agency is incorrect because of an error or because it is incomplete, the county clerk shall mail notice to the person attempting to register, informing him that he has not been registered because of an error or because the form is incomplete.

