20A-2-301.   County clerk responsibilities -- Voter registration forms.

(1)  Each county clerk shall provide book voter registration forms and by-mail voter registration forms for use in the voter registration process.

(2) (a)  Each county clerk shall:

(i)  designate certain offices within the county to provide by-mail voter registration forms to the public; and

(ii)  provide by-mail voter registration forms to each public assistance agency and discretionary voter registration agency.

(b)  Each county clerk may provide copies of by-mail voter registration forms to public school districts and nonpublic schools as provided in Section 20A-2-302.

(3) (a)  Each regular general election year, the county clerk shall make by-mail voter registration forms available to the political parties as provided in this Subsection (3).

(b)  The county clerk shall set aside by-mail registration forms equal to 10% of the number of registered voters in the county as of January 1 of that regular general election year for allocation to political parties.

(c)  The forms shall be allocated to the respective political parties in each county as follows:

(i)  Ninety percent of the forms shall be made available on an equal basis to all parties who had any candidate who polled 10% or more of the vote for any partisan office in the last regular general election.

(ii)  Ten percent of the forms shall be made available on an equal basis to all other parties who qualify for a position on the ballot for the next regular general election.

(4)  Candidates, parties, organizations, and interested persons may purchase by-mail voter registration forms from the county clerk or from the printer.

(5) (a)  The clerk shall make book voter registration forms available to interested organizations in lots of 250, to be replaced when each lot of 200 is returned to the county clerk.

(b)  Interested organizations that receive book voter registration forms from the county clerk shall return them to the county clerk on or before the voter registration deadline.

(6)  The county clerk may not refuse to register any person to vote for failing to provide a telephone number on the voter registration form.

(7) (a)  It is unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to deliver completed voter registration forms, obtained as provided in this section, to the county clerk.

(b)  A person who violates this Subsection (7) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

