77-16a-102.   Jury instructions.
(1)  If a defendant asserts a defense of not guilty by reason of insanity, the
court shall instruct the jury that it may find the defendant:
(a)  guilty;
(b)  guilty and mentally ill at the time of the offense;
(c)  guilty of a lesser offense;
(d)  guilty of a lesser offense and mentally ill at the time of the offense;
(e) not guilty by reason of insanity; or
(f)  not guilty.
(2) (a)  When a defendant asserts a mental defense pursuant to Section
76-2-305 or asserts special mitigation reducing the level of an offense
pursuant to Subsection 76-5-205.5(1)(a), or when the evidence raises the issue
and either party requests the instruction, the jury shall be instructed that
if it finds a defendant guilty by proof beyond a reasonable doubt of any
charged offense or lesser included offense, it shall also return a special
verdict indicating whether it finds that the defendant was mentally ill at the
time of the offense.
(b)  If the jury finds the defendant guilty of the charged offense by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt, and by special verdict finds the defendant was
mentally ill at the time of the offense, it shall return the general verdict
of "guilty and mentally ill at the time of the offense."
(c)  If the jury finds the defendant guilty of a lesser offense by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt, and by special verdict finds the defendant was
mentally ill at the time of the offense, it shall return the general verdict
of "guilty of a lesser offense and mentally ill at the time of the offense."
(d)  If the jury finds the defendant guilty of the charged offense or a lesser
included offense and does not find that the defendant was mentally ill at the
time of the offense, the jury shall return a verdict of "guilty" of that
offense, along with the special verdict form indicating that the jury did not
find the defendant mentally ill at the time of the offense.
(e)  The special verdict shall be returned by the jury at the same time as the
general verdict, to indicate the basis for its general verdict.
(3)  In determining whether a defendant should be found guilty and mentally
ill at the time of the offense, the jury shall be instructed that the standard
of proof applicable to a finding of mental illness is by a preponderance of
the evidence.  The jury shall also be instructed that the standard of
preponderance of the evidence does not apply to the elements establishing a
defendant's guilt, and that the proof of the elements establishing a
defendant's guilt of any offense must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt.
(4) (a)  When special mitigation based on extreme emotional distress is at
issue pursuant to Subsection 76-5-205.5(1)(b), the jury shall, in addition to
its general verdict, return a special verdict.
(b)  The special verdict shall be returned by the jury at the same time as the
general verdict, to indicate the basis for its general verdict.
