77-16a-202.   Person found guilty and mentally ill -- Commitment to
department -- Admission to Utah State Hospital.
(1)  In sentencing and committing a mentally ill offender to the department
under Subsection 77-16a-104(3)(a), the court shall:
(a)  sentence the offender to a term of imprisonment and order that he be
committed to the department and admitted to the Utah State Hospital for care
and treatment until transferred to UDC in accordance with Sections 77-16a-203
and 77-16a-204, making provision for readmission to the Utah State Hospital
whenever the requirements and conditions of Section 77-16a-204 are met; or
(b)  sentence the offender to a term of imprisonment and order that he be
committed to the department for care and treatment for no more than 18 months,
or until the offender's condition has been stabilized to the point that
commitment to the department and admission to the Utah State Hospital is no
longer necessary to ensure adequate mental health treatment, whichever occurs
first. At the expiration of that time, the court may recall the sentence and
commitment, and resentence the offender.  A commitment and retention of
jurisdiction under this Subsection (1)(b) shall be specified in the sentencing
order.  If that specification is not included in the sentencing order, the
offender shall be committed in accordance with Subsection (1)(a).
(2)  The court may not retain jurisdiction, under Subsection (1)(b), over the
sentence of a mentally ill offender who has been convicted of a capital
felony.  In capital cases, the court shall make the findings required by this
section after the capital sentencing proceeding mandated by Section 76-3-207.
(3)  When an offender is committed to the department and admitted to the Utah
State Hospital under Subsection (1)(b), the department shall provide the court
with reports of the offender's mental health status every six months.  Those
reports shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of Section
77-16a-203. Additionally, the court may appoint an independent examiner to
assess the mental health status of the offender.
(4)  The period of commitment to the department and admission to the Utah
State Hospital, and any subsequent retransfers to the Utah State Hospital made
pursuant to Section 77-16a-204 may not exceed the maximum sentence imposed by
the court.  Upon expiration of that sentence, the administrator of the
facility where the offender is located may initiate civil proceedings for
involuntary commitment in accordance with Title 62A, Chapter 5, Services to
People with Disabilities, or Title 62A, Chapter 15, Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Act.
