77-16a-204.   UDC acceptance of transfer of persons found guilty with a mental illness -- Retransfer from UDC to department for admission to the Utah State Hospital.

(1)  The UDC medical administrator shall designate a transfer team of at least three qualified staff members, including at least one licensed psychiatrist, to evaluate the recommendation made by the department's review team pursuant to Section 77-16a-203.  If the offender has an intellectual disability, the transfer team shall include at least one person who has expertise in testing and diagnosis of people with intellectual disabilities.

(2)  The transfer team shall concur in the recommendation if the transfer team determines that UDC can provide the offender with a mental illness with adequate mental health treatment.

(3)  The UDC transfer team and medical administrator shall recommend the facility in which the offender should be placed and the treatment to be provided in order for the offender's mental condition to remain stabilized to the director of the Division of Institutional Operations, within the Department of Corrections.

(4)  In the event that the department and UDC do not agree on the transfer of an offender with a mental illness, the administrator of the mental health facility where the offender is located shall notify the mental health adviser for the board, in writing, of the dispute.  The mental health adviser shall be provided with copies of all reports and recommendations.  The board's mental health adviser shall make a recommendation to the board on the transfer and the board shall issue its decision within 30 days.

(5)  UDC shall notify the board whenever an offender with a mental illness is transferred from the department to UDC.

(6)  When an offender with a mental illness sentenced under Section 77-16a-202, who has been transferred from the department to UDC, and accepted by UDC, is evaluated and it is determined that the offender's mental condition has deteriorated or that the offender has become mentally unstable, the offender may be readmitted to the Utah State Hospital in accordance with the findings and procedures described in Section 62A-15-605.5.

(7)  Any person readmitted to the Utah State Hospital pursuant to Subsection (6) shall remain in the custody of UDC, and the state hospital shall act solely as the agent of UDC.

(8) An offender with a mental illness who has been readmitted to the Utah State Hospital pursuant to Subsection (6) shall be transferred back to UDC in accordance with the provisions of Section 77-16a-203.



Amended by Chapter 366, 2011 General Session

