77-16a-301.   Mental examination of defendant
(1) (a)  When the court receives notice that a defendant intends to claim that
the defendant is not guilty by reason of insanity or that the defendant had
diminished mental capacity, or that the defendant intends to assert special
mitigation under Subsection 76-5-205.5(1)(a), the court shall order the
Department of Human Services to examine the defendant and investigate the
defendant's mental condition.
(b)  The person or organization directed by the department to conduct the
examination shall testify at the request of the court or either party in any
proceeding in which the testimony is otherwise admissible.
(c)  Pending trial, unless the court or the executive director directs
otherwise, the defendant shall be retained in the same custody or status the
defendant was in at the time the examination was ordered.
(2) (a)  The defendant shall be available and shall fully cooperate in the
examination by the department and any other independent examiners for the
defense and the prosecuting attorney.
(b)  If the defendant fails to be available and to fully cooperate, and that
failure is established to the satisfaction of the court at a hearing prior to
trial, the defendant is barred from presenting expert testimony relating to
the defendant's defense of mental illness at the trial of the case.
(c)  The department shall complete the examination within 30 days after the
court's order, and shall prepare and provide to the court prosecutor and
defense counsel a written report concerning the condition of the defendant.
(3)  Within 10 days after receipt of the report from the  department, but not
later than five days before the trial of the case, or at any other time the
court directs, the prosecuting attorney shall file and serve upon the
defendant a notice of rebuttal of the defense of mental illness, which shall
contain the names of witnesses the prosecuting attorney proposes to call in
rebuttal.
(4)  The reports of any other independent examiner are admissible as evidence
upon stipulation of the prosecution and defense.
(5)  This section does not prevent any party from producing any other
testimony as to the mental condition of the defendant.  Expert witnesses who
are not appointed by the court are not entitled to compensation under
Subsection (7).
(6)  This section does not require the admission of evidence not otherwise
admissible.
(7)  Expenses of examination ordered by the court under this section shall be
paid by the Department of Human Services.  Travel expenses associated with the
examination incurred by the defendant shall be charged by the department to
the county where prosecution is commenced. Examination of defendants charged
with violation of municipal or county ordinances shall be charged by the
department to the entity commencing the prosecution.
