77-16a-304.   Review after commitment.
(1) (a)  The executive director, or the executive director's designee, shall
establish a review team of at least three qualified staff members to review
the defendant's mental condition at least every six months.
(b)  The team described in Subsection (1)(a) shall include:
(i)  at least one psychiatrist; and
(ii)  if the defendant is mentally retarded, at least one staff member who is
a designated mental retardation professional, as defined in Section 62A-5-101.
(2)  If the review team described in Subsection (1) finds that the defendant
has recovered from the defendant's mental illness, or, that the defendant is
still mentally ill but does not present a substantial danger to himself or
others, the executive director, or the executive director's designee, shall:
(a)  notify the court that committed the defendant that the defendant is a
candidate for discharge; and
(b)  provide the court with a report stating the facts that form the basis for
the recommendation.
(3) (a)  The court shall conduct a hearing within ten business days after
receipt of the executive director's, or the executive director's designee's,
notification.
(b)  The court clerk shall provide notice of the date and time of the hearing
to:
(i)  the prosecuting attorney;
(ii)  the defendant's attorney; and
(iii)  any victim of the crime for which the defendant was found not guilty by
reason of insanity.
(4) (a)  The court shall order that the defendant be discharged from
commitment if the court finds that the defendant:
(i)  is no longer mentally ill; or
(ii)  is mentally ill, but no longer presents a substantial danger to himself
or others.
(b)  The court shall order the person conditionally released in accordance
with Section 77-16a-305 if the court finds that the defendant:
(i)  is still mentally ill;
(ii)  is a substantial danger to himself or others; and
(iii)  can be controlled adequately if conditionally released with treatment
as a condition of release.
(c) The court shall order that the commitment be continued if the court finds
that the defendant:
(i)  has not recovered from his mental illness;
(ii)  is a substantial danger to himself or others; and
(iii)  cannot adequately be controlled if conditionally released on
supervision.
(d) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(d)(ii), the court may not
discharge a defendant whose mental illness is in remission as a result of
medication or hospitalization if it can be determined within reasonable
medical probability that without continued medication or hospitalization the
defendant's mental illness will reoccur, making the defendant a substantial
danger to himself or others.
(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(d)(i), the defendant described in
Subsection (4)(d)(i) may be a candidate for conditional release, in accordance
with Section 77-16a-305.
