53A-12-103.   Waiver of fees.
(1) (a)  A local school board shall require, as part of an authorization
granted under Section 53A-12-102, that adequate waivers or other provisions
are available to ensure that no student is denied the opportunity to
participate because of an inability to pay the required fee, deposit, or
charge.
(b) (i)  If, however, a student must repeat a course or requires remediation
to advance or graduate and a fee is associated with the course or the
remediation program, it is presumed that the student will pay the fee.
(ii)  If the student or the student's parent or guardian is financially unable
to pay the fee, the board shall provide for alternatives to waiving the fee,
which may include installment payments and school or community service or work
projects for the student.
(iii)  In cases of extreme financial hardship or where the student has
suffered a long-term illness, or death in the family, or other major emergency
and where installment payments and the imposition of a service or work
requirement would not be reasonable, the student may receive a partial or full
waiver of the fee required under Subsection (1)(b)(i).
(iv)  The waiver provisions in Subsections (2) and (3) apply to all other
fees, deposits, and charges made in the secondary schools.
(2) (a)  The board shall require each school in the district that charges a
fee under this chapter to provide a variety of alternatives for satisfying the
fee requirement to those who qualify for fee waivers, in addition to the
outright waiver of the fee.
(b)  The board shall develop and provide a list of alternatives for the
schools, including such options as allowing the student to provide:
(i)  tutorial assistance to other students;
(ii)  assistance before or after school to teachers and other school personnel
on school related matters; and
(iii)  general community or home service.
(c)  Each school may add to the list of alternatives provided by the board,
subject to approval by the board.
(3)  A local school board may establish policies providing for partial fee
waivers or other alternatives for those students who, because of extenuating
circumstances, are not in a financial position to pay the entire fee.
(4)  With regard to children who are in the custody of the Division of Child
and Family Services who are also eligible under Title IV-E of the federal
Social Security Act, local school boards shall require fee waivers or
alternatives in accordance with Subsections (1) through (3).
(5)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the State Board of Education shall make rules:
(a)  requiring a parent or guardian of a student applying for a fee waiver to
provide documentation and certification to the school verifying:
(i)  the student's eligibility to receive the waiver; and
(ii)  that the alternatives for satisfying the fee requirements under
Subsection (2) have been complied with to the fullest extent reasonably
possible according to the individual circumstances of both the fee waiver
applicant and the school; and
(b)  specifying the acceptable forms of documentation for the requirement
under Subsection (5)(a), which shall include verification based on income tax
returns or current pay stubs.
(6)  Notwithstanding the requirements under Subsection (5), a school is not
required to keep documentation on file after the verification is completed.
