61-2a-5.   Notice to division -- Judgment against real estate licensee --
Fraud, misrepresentation, or deceit -- Verified petition for order directing
payment from fund -- Limitations and procedure.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (6), a person may bring a claim
against the fund only if the person sends a signed notification to the
division at the time the person files an action against a real estate licensee
alleging fraud, misrepresentation, or deceit.
(b)  Within 30 days of receipt of the notice, the division has an
unconditional right to intervene in the action.
(c)  If the person making a claim against the fund obtains a final judgment in
a court of competent jurisdiction in this state against the licensee based
upon fraud, misrepresentation, or deceit in a real estate transaction, the
person making the claim may, upon termination of all proceedings including
appeals, file a verified petition in the court where the judgment was entered
for an order directing payment from the fund for the uncollected actual
damages included in the judgment and unpaid.
(d)  Recovery from the fund may not include:
(i)  punitive damages;
(ii)  attorney fees;
(iii)  interest; or
(iv)  court costs.
(e)  Regardless of the number of claimants or parcels of real estate involved
in a transaction, the liability of the fund may not exceed:
(i)  $15,000 for a single transaction; and
(ii)  $50,000 for one licensee.
(2)  A copy of the petition shall be served upon the division, and an
affidavit of the service shall be filed with the court.
(3)  The court shall conduct a hearing on the petition within 30 days after
service.  The petitioner shall recover from the fund only if the petitioner
shows all of the following:
(a)  the petitioner is not the spouse of the judgment debtor or the personal
representative of the spouse;
(b)  the petitioner has complied with this chapter;
(c)  the petitioner has obtained a final judgment in the manner prescribed
under this section, indicating the amount of the judgment awarded;
(d)  the petitioner has proved the amount still owing on the judgment at the
date of the petition;
(e)  the petitioner has had a writ of execution issued upon the judgment, and
the officer executing the writ has made a return showing that no property
subject to execution in satisfaction of the judgment could be found;
(f)  if execution is levied against the property of the judgment debtor:
(i)  that the amount realized was insufficient to satisfy the judgment; and
(ii)  the amount realized and the balance remaining on the judgment after
application of the amount realized;
(g)  the petitioner has made reasonable searches and inquiries to ascertain
whether the judgment debtor has any interest in property, real or personal,
that may satisfy the judgment; and
(h)  the petitioner has exercised reasonable diligence to secure payment of
the judgment from the assets of the judgment debtor.
(4)  If the petitioner satisfies the court that it is not practicable for the
petitioner to comply with one or more of the requirements enumerated in
Subsections (3)(e) through (h), the court may waive those requirements.
(5) (a)  A judgment that is the basis for a claim against the fund may not
have been discharged in bankruptcy.
(b)  In the case of a bankruptcy proceeding that is still open or that is
commenced during the pendency of the claim, the claimant shall obtain an order
from the bankruptcy court declaring the judgment and debt to be
nondischargeable.
(6)  A person may not bring a claim against the fund if the person is
substantially complicit in the fraud, misrepresentation, or deceit that is the
basis of the claim.
