63M-2-301.   The Utah Science Technology and Research Governing Authority --
Creation -- Membership -- Meetings -- Staff.
(1)  There is created the Utah Science Technology and Research Governing
Authority consisting of the state treasurer, the executive director of the
Governor's Office of Economic Development, and the following eight members
appointed as follows with the consent of the Senate:
(a)  three appointed by the governor;
(b)  two appointed by the president of the Senate;
(c)  two appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives; and
(d)  one appointed by the commissioner of higher education.
(2) (a) (i)  The eight appointed members shall serve four-year staggered
terms.
(ii)  The appointed members may not serve more than two full consecutive
terms.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a)(i), the terms of the first members of
the governing authority shall be staggered by lot so that half of the initial
members serve two-year terms and half serve four-year terms.
(3)  Vacancies in the appointed positions on the governing authority shall be
filled by the appointing authority with consent of the Senate for the
unexpired term.
(4) (a)  The governor shall select the chair of the governing authority to
serve a one-year term.
(b)  The executive director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development
shall serve as the vice chair of the governing authority.
(5)  The governing authority shall meet at least monthly and may meet more
frequently at the request of a majority of the members of the governing
authority.
(6)  Five members of the governing authority are a quorum.
(7) (a)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(b)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(8) (a) (i)  The governing authority shall hire a full-time executive director
to provide staff support for the governing authority.
(ii)  The executive director is an at-will employee who may be terminated
without cause by the governor or by majority vote of the governing authority.
(b)  The Governor's Office of Economic Development shall provide office space
and administrative support for the executive director.
