63M-2-303.   Utah Science Technology and Research Governing Authority
Advisory Council -- Chair -- Meetings.
(1)  There is created the Utah Science Technology and Research Governing
Authority Advisory Council consisting of 12 members appointed as follows:
(a)  one member appointed by the director of the Governor's Office of Economic
Development;
(b)  one member appointed by the Utah Information Technology Association;
(c)  one member appointed by the Utah Nanotechnology Initiative;
(d)  one member appointed by the Economic Development Corporation of Utah;
(e)  one member appointed by the Utah Life Science Association;
(f)  one member appointed by the Salt Lake Area Chamber of Commerce;
(g)  one member appointed by the Provo-Orem Chamber of Commerce;
(h)  one member appointed by the Davis Area Chamber of Commerce;
(i)  one member appointed by the Ogden-Weber Chamber of Commerce;
(j)  one member appointed by the Cache Chamber of Commerce;
(k)  one member appointed by the St. George Area Chamber of Commerce; and
(l)  one member appointed by the Vernal Chamber of Commerce.
(2)  The governing authority shall consult with the advisory council about the
project.
(3)  The advisory council shall select a chair from among its members to serve
a two-year term.
(4)  The advisory council shall convene whenever the governing authority
requests a meeting for consultation.
(5) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
