53-5-703.   Board -- Membership -- Compensation -- Terms -- Duties.
(1)  There is created within the division the Concealed Weapon Review Board.
(2) (a)  The board is comprised of not more than five members appointed by the
commissioner on a bipartisan basis.
(b)  The board shall include a member representing law enforcement and at
least two citizens, one of whom represents sporting interests.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (b), as terms of current board
members expire, the commissioner shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (a), the commissioner
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(5) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(6)  The board shall meet at least quarterly, unless the board has no business
to conduct during that quarter.
(7)  The board, upon receiving a timely filed petition for review, shall
review within a reasonable time the denial, suspension, or revocation of a
permit or a temporary permit to carry a concealed firearm.
