53-5-708.   Permit -- Names private.

(1) (a)  The bureau shall maintain a record in its office of any permit issued under this part.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection 63G-2-301(2)(b), the names, addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and Social Security numbers of persons receiving permits are protected records under Subsection 63G-2-305 (11).

(c)  Notwithstanding Section 63G-2-206, a person may not share any of the information listed in Subsection (1)(b) with any office, department, division, or other agency of the federal government unless:

(i)  the disclosure is necessary to conduct a criminal background check on the individual who is the subject of the information;

(ii)  the disclosure of information is made pursuant to a court order directly associated with an active investigation or prosecution of the individual who is the subject of the information;

(iii)  the disclosure is made to a criminal justice agency in a criminal investigation or prosecution;

(iv)  the disclosure is made by a law enforcement agency within the state to another law enforcement agency in the state or in another state in connection with an investigation, including a preliminary investigation, or a prosecution of the individual who is the subject of the information;

(v)  the disclosure is made by a law enforcement agency within the state to an employee of a federal law enforcement agency in the course of a combined law enforcement effort involving the law enforcement agency within the state and the federal law enforcement agency; or

(vi)  the disclosure is made in response to a routine request that a federal law enforcement officer makes to obtain information on an individual whom the federal law enforcement officer detains, including for a traffic stop, or questions because of the individual's suspected violation of state law.

(d)  A person is guilty of a class A misdemeanor if the person knowingly:

(i)  discloses information listed in Subsection (1)(b) in violation of the provisions under Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act, applicable to protected records; or

(ii)  shares information in violation of Subsection (1)(c).

(e) (i)  As used in this Subsection (1)(e), "governmental agency" means:

(A)  the state or any department, division, agency, or other instrumentality of the state; or

(B)  a political subdivision of the state, including a county, city, town, school district, local district, and special service district.

(ii)  A governmental agency may not compel or attempt to compel an individual who has been issued a concealed firearm permit to divulge whether the individual:

(A)  has been issued a concealed firearm permit; or

(B)  is carrying a concealed firearm.

(iii)  Subsection (1)(e)(ii) does not apply to a law enforcement officer.

(2)  The bureau shall immediately file a copy of each permit it issues under this part.



Amended by Chapter 298, 2013 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 445, 2013 General Session

