26-8a-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1) (a)  "911 ambulance or paramedic services" means:

(i)  either:

(A)  911 ambulance service;

(B)  911 paramedic service; or

(C)  both 911 ambulance and paramedic service; and

(ii)  a response to a 911 call received by a designated dispatch center that receives 911 or E911 calls.

(b)  "911 ambulance or paramedic service" does not mean a seven or ten digit telephone call received directly by an ambulance provider licensed under this chapter.

(2)  "Ambulance" means a ground, air, or water vehicle that:

(a)  transports patients and is used to provide emergency medical services; and

(b)  is required to obtain a permit under Section 26-8a-304 to operate in the state.

(3)  "Ambulance provider" means an emergency medical service provider that:

(a)  transports and provides emergency medical care to patients; and

(b)  is required to obtain a license under Part 4, Ambulance and Paramedic Providers.

(4)  "Committee" means the State Emergency Medical Services Committee created by Section 26-1-7.

(5)  "Direct medical observation" means in-person observation of a patient by a physician, registered nurse, physician's assistant, or individual certified under Section 26-8a-302.

(6)  "Emergency medical condition" means:

(a)  a medical condition that manifests itself by symptoms of sufficient severity, including severe pain, that a prudent layperson, who possesses an average knowledge of health and medicine, could reasonably expect the absence of immediate medical attention to result in:

(i)  placing the individual's health in serious jeopardy;

(ii)  serious impairment to bodily functions; or

(iii)  serious dysfunction of any bodily organ or part; or

(b)  a medical condition that in the opinion of a physician or his designee requires direct medical observation during transport or may require the intervention of an individual certified under Section 26-8a-302 during transport.

(7)  "Emergency medical service personnel":

(a)  means an individual who provides emergency medical services to a patient and is required to be certified under Section 26-8a-302; and

(b)  includes a paramedic, medical director of a licensed emergency medical service provider, emergency medical service instructor, and other categories established by the committee.

(8)  "Emergency medical service providers" means:

(a)  licensed ambulance providers and paramedic providers;

(b)  a facility or provider that is required to be designated under Section 26-8a-303; and

(c)  emergency medical service personnel.

(9)  "Emergency medical services" means medical services, transportation services, or both rendered to a patient.

(10)  "Emergency medical service vehicle" means a land, air, or water vehicle that is:

(a)  maintained and used for the transportation of emergency medical personnel, equipment, and supplies to the scene of a medical emergency; and

(b)  required to be permitted under Section 26-8a-304.

(11)  "Governing body":

(a)  is as defined in Subsection 11-42-102(19); and

(b)  for purposes of a "special service district" under Subsection 11-42-102(19), means a special service district that has been delegated the authority to select a provider under this chapter by the special service district's legislative body or administrative control board.

(12)  "Interested party" means:

(a)  a licensed or designated emergency medical services provider that provides emergency medical services within or in an area that abuts an exclusive geographic service area that is the subject of an application submitted pursuant to Part 4, Ambulance and Paramedic Providers;

(b)  any municipality, county, or fire district that lies within or abuts a geographic service area that is the subject of an application submitted pursuant to Part 4, Ambulance and Paramedic Providers; or

(c)  the department when acting in the interest of the public.

(13)  "Medical control" means a person who provides medical supervision to an emergency medical service provider.

(14)  "Non-911 service" means transport of a patient that is not 911 transport under Subsection (1).

(15)  "Paramedic provider" means an entity that:

(a)  employs emergency medical service personnel; and

(b)  is required to obtain a license under Part 4, Ambulance and Paramedic Providers.

(16)  "Patient" means an individual who, as the result of illness or injury, meets any of the criteria in Section 26-8a-305.

(17)  "Political subdivision" means:

(a)  a city or town located in a county of the first or second class as defined in Section 17-50-501;

(b)  a county of the first or second class;

(c)  the following districts located in a county of the first or second class:

(i)  a special service district created under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act; or

(ii)  a local district under Title 17B, Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Local Districts, for the purpose of providing fire protection, paramedic, and emergency services;

(d)  areas coming together as described in Subsection 26-8a-405.2(2)(b)(ii);

(e)  an interlocal entity under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act; or

(f)  a special service district for fire protection service under Subsection 17D-1-201(9).

(18)  "Trauma" means an injury requiring immediate medical or surgical intervention.

(19)  "Trauma system" means a single, statewide system that:

(a)  organizes and coordinates the delivery of trauma care within defined geographic areas from the time of injury through transport and rehabilitative care; and

(b)  is inclusive of all prehospital providers, hospitals, and rehabilitative facilities in delivering care for trauma patients, regardless of severity.

(20)  "Triage" means the sorting of patients in terms of disposition, destination, or priority.  For prehospital trauma victims, triage requires a determination of injury severity to assess the appropriate level of care according to established patient care protocols.

(21)  "Triage, treatment, transportation, and transfer guidelines" means written procedures that:

(a)  direct the care of patients; and

(b)  are adopted by the medical staff of an emergency patient receiving facility, trauma center, or an emergency medical service provider.

