26-8a-103.   State Emergency Medical Services Committee -- Membership -- Expenses.

(1)  The State Emergency Medical Services Committee created by Section 26-1-7 shall be composed of the following 16 members appointed by the governor, at least five of whom shall reside in a county of the third, fourth, fifth, or sixth class:

(a)  five physicians licensed under Title 58, Chapter 67, Utah Medical Practice Act, or Title 58, Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act, as follows:

(i)  one surgeon who actively provides trauma care at a hospital;

(ii)  one rural physician involved in emergency medical care;

(iii)  two physicians who practice in the emergency department of a general acute hospital; and

(iv)  one pediatrician who practices in the emergency department or critical care unit of a general acute hospital or a children's specialty hospital;

(b)  one representative from a private ambulance provider;

(c)  one representative from an ambulance provider that is neither privately owned nor operated by a fire department;

(d)  two chief officers from fire agencies operated by the following classes of licensed or designated emergency medical services providers: municipality, county, and fire district, provided that no class of medical services providers may have more than one representative under this Subsection (1)(d);

(e)  one director of a law enforcement agency that provides emergency medical services;

(f)  one hospital administrator;

(g)  one emergency care nurse;

(h)  one paramedic in active field practice;

(i)  one emergency medical technician in active field practice;

(j)  one certified emergency medical dispatcher affiliated with an emergency medical dispatch center; and

(k)  one consumer.

(2) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), members shall be appointed to a four-year term beginning July 1.

(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.

(c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed by the governor for the unexpired term.

(3) (a)  Each January, the committee shall organize and select one of its members as chair and one member as vice chair. The committee may organize standing or ad hoc subcommittees, which shall operate in accordance with guidelines established by the committee.

(b)  The chair shall convene a minimum of four meetings per year. The chair may call special meetings.  The chair shall call a meeting upon request of five or more members of the committee.

(c)  Nine members of the committee constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the action of a majority of the members present is the action of the committee.

(4)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(5)  Administrative services for the committee shall be provided by the department.

