26-8a-207.   Emergency medical services grant program.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Rural area" means an exclusive geographic service area as provided under
Section 26-8a-402 that is a city, town, or other similar community with a
population of 10,000 or less based on the most recently published data of the
United States Census Bureau.
(b)  "Rural county area" means an exclusive geographic service area as
provided under Section 26-8a-402 that is a county of the fourth, fifth, or
sixth class as provided under Section 17-50-501.
(2) (a)  The department shall receive as dedicated credits the amount
established in Section 51-9-403.  That amount shall be transferred to the
department by the Division of Finance from funds generated by the surcharge
imposed under Title 51, Chapter 9, Part 4, Criminal Conviction Surcharge
Allocation.
(b)  Funds transferred to the department under this section shall be used for
improvement of delivery of emergency medical services and administrative costs
as described in Subsection (3)(a).  Appropriations to the department for the
purposes enumerated in this section shall be made from those dedicated
credits.
(c)  All funding for the program created by this section shall be nonlapsing.
(3) (a)  The department may use the funds transferred to it under Subsection
(2):
(i)  to provide staff support; and
(ii)  for other expenses incurred in:
(A)  administration of grant funds; and
(B)  other department administrative costs under this chapter.
(b)  After funding staff support, administrative expenses, and trauma system
development, the department and the committee shall make emergency medical
services grants from the remaining funds received as dedicated credits under
Subsection (2).  A recipient of a grant under this Subsection (3)(b) must
actively provide emergency medical services within:
(i)  a rural area; or
(ii)  a rural county area.
(c)  The department shall distribute 50% as per capita block grants for use
specifically related to the provision of emergency medical services to
nonprofit prehospital emergency medical services providers that are either
licensed or designated and to emergency medical services that are the primary
emergency medical services for a service area.  The department shall determine
the grant amounts by prorating available funds on a per capita basis by county
as described in department rule.
(d)  The committee shall award the remaining funds as competitive grants for
use specifically related to the provision of emergency medical services based
upon rules established by the committee.
