26-8a-402.   Exclusive geographic service areas.
(1)  Each ground ambulance provider license issued under this part shall be
for an exclusive geographic service area as described in the license.  Only
the licensed ground ambulance provider may respond to an ambulance request
that originates within the provider's exclusive geographic service area,
except as provided in Subsection (5) and Section 26-8a-416.
(2)  Each paramedic provider license issued under this part shall be for an
exclusive geographic service area as described in the license.  Only the
licensed paramedic provider may respond to a paramedic request that originates
within the exclusive geographic service area, except as provided in Subsection
(6) and Section 26-8a-416.
(3)  Nothing in this section may be construed as either requiring or
prohibiting that the formation of boundaries in a given location be the same
for a licensed paramedic provider as it is for a licensed ambulance provider.
(4) (a)  A licensed ground ambulance or paramedic provider may, as necessary,
enter into a mutual aid agreement to allow another licensed provider to give
assistance in times of unusual demand, as that term is defined by the
committee in rule.
(b)  A mutual aid agreement shall include a formal written plan detailing the
type of assistance and the circumstances under which it would be given.
(c)  The parties to a mutual aid agreement shall submit a copy of the
agreement to the department.
(d)  Notwithstanding this Subsection (4), a licensed provider may not
subcontract with another entity to provide services in the licensed provider's
exclusive geographic service area.
(5)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1), a licensed ground ambulance provider may
respond to an ambulance request that originates from the exclusive geographic
area of another provider:
(a)  pursuant to a mutual aid agreement;
(b)  to render assistance on a case-by-case basis to that provider; and
(c)  as necessary to meet needs in time of disaster or other major emergency.
(6)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2), a licensed paramedic provider may respond
to a paramedic request that originates from the exclusive geographic area of
another provider:
(a)  pursuant to a mutual aid agreement;
(b)  to render assistance on a case-by-case basis to that provider; and
(c)  as necessary to meet needs in time of disaster or other major emergency.
