26-8a-404.   Ground ambulance and paramedic licenses -- Application and
department review.
(1)  Except as provided in Section 26-8a-413, an applicant for a ground
ambulance or paramedic license shall apply to the department for a license
only by:
(a)  submitting a completed application;
(b)  providing information in the format required by the department; and
(c)  paying the required fees, including the cost of the hearing officer.
(2)  The department shall make rules establishing minimum qualifications and
requirements for:
(a)  personnel;
(b)  capital reserves;
(c)  equipment;
(d)  a business plan;
(e)  operational procedures;
(f) medical direction agreements;
(g)  management and control; and
(h)  other matters that may be relevant to an applicant's ability to provide
ground ambulance or paramedic service.
(3)  An application for a license to provide ground ambulance service or
paramedic service shall be for all ground ambulance services or paramedic
services arising within the geographic service area, except that an applicant
may apply for a license for less than all ground ambulance services or all
paramedic services arising within an exclusive geographic area if it can
demonstrate how the remainder of that area will be served.
(4) (a)  A ground ambulance service licensee may apply to the department for a
license to provide a higher level of service as defined by department rule if:
(i)  the application for the license is limited to non-911 ambulance or
paramedic services; and
(ii)  the application includes:
(A)  a copy of the new treatment protocols for the higher level of service
approved by the off-line medical director;
(B)  an assessment of field performance by the applicant's off-line director;
and
(C)  an updated plan of operation demonstrating the ability of the applicant
to provide the higher level of service.
(b)  If the department determines that the applicant has demonstrated the
ability to provide the higher level of service in accordance with Subsection
(4)(a), the department shall issue a revised license reflecting the higher
level of service and the requirements of Section 26-8a-408 do not apply.
(5)  Upon receiving a completed application and the required fees, the
department shall review the application and determine whether the application
meets the minimum  qualifications and requirements for licensure.
(6)  The department may deny an application if it finds that it contains any
materially false or misleading information, is incomplete, or if the
application demonstrates that the applicant fails to meet the minimum
qualifications and requirements for licensure under Subsection (2).
(7)  If the department denies an application, it shall notify the applicant in
writing setting forth the grounds for the denial.  A denial may be appealed
under Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
