26-8a-413.   License renewals.
(1)  A licensed provider desiring to renew its license must meet the renewal
requirements established by department rule.
(2)  The department shall issue a renewal license for a ground ambulance
provider or a paramedic provider upon the licensee's application for a renewal
and without a public hearing if there has been:
(a)  no change in controlling interest in the ownership of the licensee as
defined in Section 26-8a-415;
(b)  no serious, substantiated public complaints filed with the department
against the licensee during the term of the previous license;
(c)  no material or substantial change in the basis upon which the license was
originally granted;
(d)  no reasoned objection from the committee or the department; and
(e) if the applicant was licensed under the provisions of Sections 26-8a-406
through 26-8a-409, no conflicting license application.
(3) (a) (i)  The provisions of this Subsection (3) apply to a provider
licensed under the provisions of Sections 26-8a-405.1 and 26-8a-405.2.
(ii)  A provider may renew its license if the provisions of Subsections (1),
(2)(a) through (d), and this Subsection (3) are met.
(b) (i)  The department shall issue a renewal license to a provider upon the
provider's application for renewal for one additional four-year term if the
political subdivision certifies to the department that the provider has met
all of the specifications of the original bid.
(ii)  If the political subdivision does not certify to the department that the
provider has met all of the specifications of the original bid, the department
may not issue a renewal license and the political subdivision must enter into
a public bid process under Sections 26-8a-405.1 and 26-8a-405.2.
(c) (i)  The department shall issue an additional renewal license to a
provider who has already been issued a one-time renewal license under the
provisions of Subsection (3)(b)(i) if the department and the political
subdivision do not receive, prior to the expiration of the provider's license,
written notice from an approved applicant informing the political subdivision
of the approved applicant's desire to submit a bid for ambulance or paramedic
service.
(ii)  If the department and the political subdivision receive the notice in
accordance with Subsection (3)(c)(i), the department may not issue a renewal
license and the political subdivision must enter into a public bid process
under Sections 26-8a-405.1 and 26-8a-405.2.
(4)  The department shall issue a renewal license for an air ambulance
provider upon the licensee's application for renewal and completion of the
renewal requirements established by department rule.
