77-17-13.   Expert testimony generally -- Notice requirements.
(1) (a)  If the prosecution or the defense intends to call any expert to
testify in a felony case at trial or any hearing, excluding a preliminary
hearing held pursuant to Rule 7 of the Utah Rules of Criminal Procedure, the
party intending to call the expert shall give notice to the opposing party as
soon as practicable but not less than 30 days before trial or 10 days before
the hearing.
(b)  Notice shall include the name and address of the expert, the expert's
curriculum vitae, and one of the following:
(i)  a copy of the expert's report, if one exists; or
(ii)  a written explanation of the expert's proposed testimony sufficient to
give the opposing party adequate notice to prepare to meet the testimony; and
(iii)  a notice that the expert is available to cooperatively consult with the
opposing party on reasonable notice.
(c)  The party intending to call the expert is responsible for any fee charged
by the expert for the consultation.
(2)  If an expert's anticipated testimony will be based in whole or part on
the results of any tests or other specialized data, the party intending to
call the witness shall provide to the opposing party the information upon
request.
(3)  As soon as practicable after receipt of the expert's report or the
information concerning the expert's proposed testimony, the party receiving
notice shall provide to the other party notice of witnesses whom the party
anticipates calling to rebut the expert's testimony, including the information
required under Subsection (1)(b).
(4) (a)  If the defendant or the prosecution fails to substantially comply
with the requirements of this section, the opposing party shall, if necessary
to prevent substantial prejudice, be entitled to a continuance of the trial or
hearing sufficient to allow preparation to meet the testimony.
(b)  If the court finds that the failure to comply with this section is the
result of bad faith on the part of any party or attorney, the court shall
impose appropriate sanctions.  The remedy of exclusion of the expert's
testimony will only apply if the court finds that a party deliberately
violated the provisions of this section.
(5) (a)  For purposes of this section, testimony of an expert at a preliminary
hearing held pursuant to Rule 7 of the Utah Rules of Criminal Procedure
constitutes notice of the expert, the expert's qualifications, and a report of
the expert's proposed trial testimony as to the subject matter testified to by
the expert at the preliminary hearing.
(b)  Upon request, the party who called the expert at the preliminary hearing
shall provide the opposing party with a copy of the expert's curriculum vitae
as soon as practicable prior to trial or any hearing at which the expert may
be called as an expert witness.
(6)  This section does not apply to the use of an expert who is an employee of
the state or its political subdivisions, so long as the opposing party is on
reasonable notice through general discovery that the expert may be called as a
witness at trial, and the witness is made available to cooperatively consult
with the opposing party upon reasonable notice.
