58-79-102.   Definitions.
In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:
(1)  "Board" means the Hunting Guides and Outfitters Licensing Board created
in Section 58-79-201.
(2)  "Compensation" means anything of economic value in excess of $100 that is
paid, loaned, granted, given, donated, or transferred to a hunting guide or
outfitter for or in consideration of personal services, materials, or
property.
(3)  "Hunting" means to locate, pursue, chase, catch, capture, trap, or kill
wildlife.
(4)  "Hunting guide" means an individual who:
(a)  offers or provides hunting guide services on public lands for
compensation; and
(b)  is retained for compensation by an outfitter.
(5)  "Hunting guide services" means to guide, lead, or assist an individual in
hunting wildlife.
(6)  "Outfitter" means an individual who offers or provides outfitting or
hunting guide services for compensation to another individual for hunting
wildlife on public lands.
(7) (a)  "Outfitting services" means providing, for hunting wildlife on public
lands:
(i)  transportation of people, equipment, supplies, or wildlife to or from a
location;
(ii)  packing, protecting, or supervising services; or
(iii)  hunting guide services.
(b)  "Outfitting services" does not include activities undertaken by the
Division of Wildlife Resources or its employees, associates, volunteers,
contractors, or agents under authority granted in Title 23, Wildlife Resources
Code of Utah.
(8) (a)  "Public lands" means any lands owned by the United States, the state,
or a political subdivision or independent entity of the state that are open to
the public for purposes of engaging in a wildlife related activity.
(b)  "Public lands" does not include lands owned by the United States, the
state, or a political subdivision or independent entity of the state that are
included in a cooperative wildlife management unit under Subsection 23-23-7(5)
so long as the guiding and outfitting services furnished by the cooperative
wildlife management unit are limited to hunting species of wildlife
specifically authorized by the Division of Wildlife Resources in the unit's
management plan.
(9)  "Wildlife" means cougar, bear, and big game animals as defined in
Subsection 23-13-2(6).
