38-9-6.   Petition to file lien -- Notice to record interest holders --
Summary relief -- Contested petition.
(1)  A lien claimant whose document is rejected pursuant to Section 38-9-3 may
petition the district court in the county in which the document was rejected
for an expedited determination that the lien may be recorded or filed.
(2) (a)  The petition shall be filed with the district court within ten days
of the date notice is received of the rejection and shall state with
specificity the grounds why the document should lawfully be recorded or filed.
(b)  The petition shall be supported by a sworn affidavit of the lien
claimant.
(c)  If the court finds the petition is insufficient, it may dismiss the
petition without a hearing.
(d)  If the court grants a hearing, the petitioner shall serve a copy of the
petition, notice of hearing, and a copy of the court's order granting an
expedited hearing on all record interest holders of the property sufficiently
in advance of the hearing to enable any record interest holder to attend the
hearing and service shall be accomplished by certified or registered mail.
(e)  Any record interest holder of the property has the right to attend and
contest the petition.
(3)  Following a hearing on the matter, if the court finds that the document
may lawfully be recorded, it shall issue an order directing the county
recorder to accept the document for recording.  If the petition is contested,
the court may award costs and reasonable attorney's fees to the prevailing
party.
(4)  A summary proceeding under this section is only to determine whether or
not a contested document, on its face, shall be recorded by the county
recorder.  The proceeding may not determine the truth of the content of the
document nor the property or legal rights of the parties beyond the necessary
determination of whether or not the document shall be recorded.  The court's
grant or denial of the petition under this section may not restrict any other
legal remedies of any party, including any right to injunctive relief pursuant
to Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 65A, Injunctions.
(5)  If the petition contains a claim for damages, the damage proceedings may
not be expedited under this section.
