38-9-7.   Petition to nullify lien -- Notice to lien claimant -- Summary
relief -- Finding of wrongful lien -- Wrongful lien is void.
(1)  Any record interest holder of real property against which a wrongful lien
as defined in Section 38-9-1 has been recorded may petition the district court
in the county in which the document was recorded for summary relief to nullify
the lien.
(2)  The petition shall state with specificity the claim that the lien is a
wrongful lien and shall be supported by a sworn affidavit of the record
interest holder.
(3) (a)  If the court finds the petition insufficient, it may dismiss the
petition without a hearing.
(b)  If the court finds the petition is sufficient, the court shall schedule a
hearing within 10 days to determine whether the document is a wrongful lien.
(c)  The record interest holder shall serve a copy of the petition on the lien
claimant and a notice of the hearing pursuant to Rules of Civil Procedure,
Rule 4, Process.
(d)  The lien claimant is entitled to attend and contest the petition.
(4)  A summary proceeding under this section is only to determine whether or
not a document is a wrongful lien.  The proceeding shall not determine any
other property or legal rights of the parties nor restrict other legal
remedies of any party.
(5) (a)  Following a hearing on the matter, if the court determines that the
document is a wrongful lien, the court shall issue an order declaring the
wrongful lien void ab initio, releasing the property from the lien, and
awarding costs and reasonable attorney's fees to the petitioner.
(b) (i)  The record interest holder may record a certified copy of the order
with the county recorder.
(ii)  The order shall contain a legal description of the real property.
(c)  If the court determines that the claim of lien is valid, the court shall
dismiss the petition and may award costs and reasonable attorney's fees to the
lien claimant.  The dismissal order shall contain a legal description of the
real property.  The prevailing lien claimant may record a certified copy of
the dismissal order.
(6)  If the district court determines that the lien is a wrongful lien as
defined in Section 38-9-1, the wrongful lien is void ab initio and provides no
notice of claim or interest.
(7)  If the petition contains a claim for damages, the damage proceedings may
not be expedited under this section.
