77-23b-5.   Backup copy of communications -- When required of provider --
Court order -- Procedures.
(1) (a)  A governmental entity acting under Subsection 77-23b-4(2)(b) may
include in its subpoena or court order a requirement that the service provider
to whom the request is directed create a backup copy of the contents of the
electronic communications sought in order to preserve those communications.
Without notifying the subscriber or customer of the subpoena or court order,
the service provider shall create the backup as soon as practicable,
consistent with its regular business practices.  The provider shall also
confirm to the governmental entity that the backup copy has been made.  The
backup copy shall be created within two business days after receipt by the
service provider of the subpoena or court order.
(b)  Notice to the subscriber or customer shall be made by the governmental
entity within three days after receipt of confirmation, unless the notice is
delayed under Subsection 77-23b-6 (1).
(c)  The service provider may not destroy the backup copy until the later of:
(i)  the delivery of the information; or
(ii)  the resolution of any proceedings, including appeals of any proceeding,
concerning the government's subpoena or court order.
(d)  The service provider shall release the backup copy to the requesting
governmental entity no sooner than 14 days after the governmental entity's
notice to the subscriber or customer, if the service provider:
(i)  has not received notice from the subscriber or customer that the
subscriber or customer has challenged the governmental entity's request; and
(ii)  has not initiated proceedings to challenge the request of the
governmental entity.
(e)  A governmental entity may seek to require the creation of a backup copy
under Subsection (1)(a) if in its sole discretion the entity determines that
there is reason to believe that notification under Section 77-23b-4 of the
existence of the subpoena or court order may result in destruction of or
tampering with evidence.  This determination is not subject to challenge by
the subscriber, customer, or service provider.
(2) (a)  Within 14 days after notice by the governmental entity to the
subscriber or customer under Subsection (1)(b), the subscriber or customer may
file a motion to quash the subpoena or vacate the court order, with copies
served upon the governmental entity, and with written notice of the challenge
to the service provider.  A motion to vacate a court order shall be filed in
the court that issues the order.  A motion to quash a subpoena shall be filed
in the appropriate district court.  The motion or application shall contain an
affidavit or sworn statement:
(i)  that the applicant is a customer or subscriber to the service from which
the contents of electronic communications maintained for him have been sought;
and
(ii)  that the applicant's reason for believing the records sought are not
relevant to a legitimate law enforcement inquiry or that there has not been
substantial compliance with the provisions of this chapter in some other
respect.
(b)  Service shall be made under this section upon a governmental entity by
delivering or mailing by registered or certified mail a copy of the papers to
the person, office, or department specified in the notice the customer
received under this chapter.  For purposes of this subsection, "deliver" has
the same meaning as under the Utah Rules of Criminal Procedure.
(c)  If the court finds that the customer has complied with Subsections (2)(a)
and (b), the court shall order the governmental entity to file a sworn
response, that may be filed in camera if the governmental entity includes in
its response the reasons making in camera review appropriate. If the court is
unable to determine the motion or application on the basis of the parties'
initial allegations and response, the court may conduct additional proceedings
as it considers appropriate.  All proceedings shall be completed, and the
motion or application decided, as soon as practicable after the filing of the
governmental entity's response.
(d)  If the court finds that the applicant is not the subscriber or customer
for whom the communications sought by the governmental entity are maintained,
or that there is a reason to believe that the law enforcement inquiry is
legitimate and that the communications sought are relevant to that inquiry, it
shall deny the motion or application and order the process enforced.  If the
court finds that the applicant is the subscriber or customer for whom the
communications sought by the governmental entity are maintained, and that
there is no reason to believe that the communications sought are relevant to a
legitimate law enforcement inquiry, or that there has not been substantial
compliance with this chapter, it shall order the process quashed.
(e)  A court order denying a motion or application under this section is not
considered a final order, and no interlocutory appeal may be taken from it by
the customer or subscriber.
