32A-11-106 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Operational restrictions.
A person granted a beer wholesaling license, and the employees and management
personnel of the beer wholesaling licensee, shall comply with the following
conditions and requirements.  Failure to comply may result in a suspension or
revocation of the beer wholesaling license or other disciplinary action taken
against individual employees or management personnel of the licensee.
(1)  A licensee may not wholesale a beer manufactured within the state by a
brewer who is not licensed by the commission as a manufacturing licensee.
(2)  A licensee may not wholesale a beer manufactured out of state by a brewer
who has not obtained a certificate of approval from the department.
(3) (a)  A licensee may not sell or distribute beer to a person within the
state except:
(i)  a licensed beer retailer;
(ii)  a holder of a single event permit issued pursuant to Chapter 7, Single
Event Permits; or
(iii)  a holder of a temporary special event beer permit issued for a
temporary special event pursuant to Chapter 10, Part 3, Temporary Special
Event Beer Permits.
(b)  A violation of this Subsection (3) is a class A misdemeanor.
(4) (a)  A licensee may not sell or distribute a beer to a retailer outside of
the geographic area designated on its application, except that if a licensee
is temporarily unable to supply retail dealers within its authorized
geographical area, the department may grant temporary authority to another
licensed wholesaler who distributes the same brand in another area to supply
retailers.
(b)  A violation of this Subsection (4) is a class B misdemeanor.
(5) (a) A licensee shall own, lease, or otherwise control and maintain a
warehouse facility located in this state for the receipt, storage, and further
distribution of all beer sold by the licensee to a person within the state.
(b)  A licensee may not sell beer to a person in this state, other than the
department, unless the beer is first:
(i)  physically removed from the vehicle used to transport the beer from the
supplier to the licensee; and
(ii)  delivered into the actual possession and control of the licensee in its
warehouse or other facility.
(6) (a)  A beer wholesaling licensee shall maintain accounting and other
records and documents as the department may require.
(b)  A licensee or person acting for the licensee, who knowingly forges,
falsifies, alters, cancels, destroys, conceals, or removes the entries in a
book of account or other document of the licensee required to be made,
maintained, or preserved by this title or the rules of the commission for the
purpose of deceiving the commission, the department, or an official or
employee of the commission or department, is subject to:
(i)  the immediate suspension or revocation of the beer wholesaling license;
and
(ii)  possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.
(7)  A licensee may not sell, transfer, assign, exchange, barter, give, or
attempt in any way to dispose of the beer wholesaling license to a person,
whether for monetary gain or not, unless it is done:
(a)  in accordance with the commission rules; and
(b)  after written consent is given by the commission.
(8)  A licensee may not sell or distribute an alcoholic beverage that has not
had its label and packaging approved by the department under Chapter 1, Part
8, Malted Beverages Act.
