13-32a-109.   Holding period for articles -- Penalty.

(1) (a)  The pawnbroker may sell any article pawned to the pawnbroker:

(i)  after the expiration of the contract period between the pawnbroker and the pledgor; and

(ii)  if the pawnbroker has complied with the requirements of Section 13-32a-106 regarding reporting to the central database and Section 13-32a-103.

(b)  If an article, including scrap jewelry, is purchased by a pawn or secondhand business or a coin dealer, the pawn or secondhand business or coin dealer may sell the article after the pawn or secondhand business or coin dealer has held the article for 15 days and complied with the requirements of Section 13-32a-106 regarding reporting to the central database and Section 13-32a-103, except that pawn, secondhand, and coin dealer businesses are not required to hold precious metals or coins under this Subsection (1)(b).

(c)  This Subsection (1) does not preclude a law enforcement agency from requiring a pawn or secondhand business to hold an article if necessary in the course of an investigation.

(i)  If the article was pawned, the law enforcement agency may require the article be held beyond the terms of the contract between the pledgor and the pawn broker.

(ii)  If the article was sold to the pawn or secondhand business, the law enforcement agency may require the article be held if the pawn or secondhand business has not sold the article.

(d)  If the law enforcement agency requesting a hold on property under this Subsection (1) is not the local law enforcement agency, the requesting law enforcement agency shall notify the local law enforcement agency of the request and also the pawn or secondhand business.

(2)  If a law enforcement agency requires the pawn or secondhand business to hold an article as part of an investigation, the agency shall provide to the pawn or secondhand business a hold ticket issued by the agency, which:

(a)  states the active case number;

(b)  confirms the date of the hold request and the article to be held; and

(c)  facilitates the ability of the pawn or secondhand business to track the article when the prosecution takes over the case.

(3)  If an article is not seized by a law enforcement agency that has placed a hold on the property, the property shall remain in the custody of the pawn or secondhand business until further disposition by the law enforcement agency, and as consistent with this chapter.

(4)  The initial hold by a law enforcement agency is for a period of 90 days.  If the article is not seized by the law enforcement agency, the article shall remain in the custody of the pawn or secondhand business and is subject to the hold unless exigent circumstances require the purchased or pawned article to be seized by the law enforcement agency.

(5) (a)  A law enforcement agency may extend any hold for up to an additional 90 days when exigent circumstances require the extension.

(b)  When there is an extension of a hold under Subsection (5)(a), the requesting law enforcement agency shall notify the pawn or secondhand business that is subject to the hold prior to the expiration of the initial 90 days.

(c)  A law enforcement agency may not hold an item for more than the 180 days allowed under Subsections (5)(a) and (b) without obtaining a court order authorizing the hold.

(6)  A hold on an article under Subsection (2) takes precedence over any request to claim or purchase the article subject to the hold.

(7)  When the purpose for the hold on or seizure of an article is terminated, the law enforcement agency requiring the hold or seizure shall within 15 days after the termination:

(a)  notify the pawn or secondhand business in writing that the hold or seizure has been terminated;

(b)  return the article subject to the seizure to the pawn or secondhand business; or

(c)  if the article is not returned to the pawn or secondhand business, advise the pawn or secondhand business either in writing or electronically of the specific alternative disposition of the article.

(8)  If the law enforcement agency does not notify the pawn or secondhand business that a hold on an item has expired, the pawn or secondhand business shall send a letter by registered or certified mail to the law enforcement agency that ordered the hold and inform the agency that the holding period has expired.  The law enforcement agency shall respond within 30 days by:

(a)  confirming that the holding period has expired and that the pawn or secondhand business may manage the item as if acquired in the ordinary course of business; or

(b)  providing written notice to the pawn or secondhand business that a court order has continued the period of time for which the item shall be held.

(9)  The written notice under Subsection (8)(b) is considered provided when:

(a)  personally delivered to the pawn or secondhand business with a signed receipt of delivery;

(b)  delivered to the pawn or secondhand business by registered or certified mail; or

(c)  delivered by any other means with the mutual assent of the law enforcement agency and the pawn or secondhand business.

(10)  If the law enforcement agency does not respond within 30 days under Subsection (8), the pawn or secondhand business may manage the item as if acquired in the ordinary course of business.

(11)  A violation of this section is a class B misdemeanor and is also subject to civil penalties under Section 13-32a-110.



Amended by Chapter 284, 2012 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 369, 2012 General Session

