13-32a-117.   Property disposition if no criminal charges filed -- Administrative hearing.

(1)  The original victim or the pawn or secondhand business may request an administrative property disposition hearing with the Division of Consumer Protection if:

(a)  more than 30 days have passed since:

(i)  the law enforcement agency placed a hold on the property; or

(ii)  the property was seized by the law enforcement agency; and

(b)  an agreement pursuant to Subsection 13-32a-115(2)(b) has not been reached.

(2)  The original victim shall provide to the Division of Consumer Protection at the hearing under this section a copy of the sworn statement taken pursuant to Section 13-32a-115 and the case number assigned by the law enforcement agency.

(3) (a)  The Division of Consumer Protection shall notify the law enforcement agency in writing of the request for a property disposition hearing.

(b)  The law enforcement agency shall forward the notice to the prosecution agency having jurisdiction over the case involving the property.

(c) (i)  The prosecution agency shall, within five business days of receiving the notice, make an initial determination pursuant to Section 77-24-2 and this chapter of whether continued hold or seizure regarding the property as evidence in a criminal trial is necessary.

(ii)  If the prosecuting agency determines the property is no longer needed as evidence, the law enforcement agency shall notify in writing the pawn or secondhand business and the original victim of the prosecuting agency's determination as soon as reasonably possible.

(4) (a)  Within 30 days after receiving the request and notification from law enforcement that the property is not needed as evidence pursuant to Section 77-24-2 and this chapter, the Division of Consumer Protection shall schedule an adjudicative hearing in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, to determine ownership of the claimed property.  The division shall provide written notice of the hearing to the pawn or secondhand business and the original victim.

(b)  The division shall conduct the hearing to determine disposition of the claimed seized property, taking into consideration:

(i)  the proof of ownership of the property and compliance with Subsection 13-32a-115(1) by the original victim;

(ii)  the claim of ownership by the pawn or secondhand business and the potential financial loss to the business; and

(iii)  compliance by the pawn or secondhand business with the requirements of this chapter.

(c)  If the division determines that the property should be released to the pawn or secondhand business, the original victim retains a right of first refusal over the property for 15 days and may purchase the property at the amount financed or paid by the pawn or secondhand business.

(d)  The party to whom the division determines the property is to be released shall maintain possession of the property for the duration of any time period regarding any applicable right of appeal.



Enacted by Chapter 284, 2012 General Session

