26-41-104.   Training in use of epinephrine auto-injector.
(1) (a)  Each primary and secondary school in the state, both public and
private, shall make initial and annual refresher training, regarding the
storage and emergency use of an epinephrine auto-injector, available to any
teacher or other school employee who volunteers to become a qualified adult.
(b)  The training described in Subsection (1)(a) may be provided by the school
nurse, or other person qualified to provide such training, designated by the
school district physician, the medical director of the local health
department, or the local emergency medical services director.
(2)  A person who provides training under Subsection (1) or (6) shall include
in the training:
(a)  techniques for recognizing symptoms of anaphylaxis;
(b)  standards and procedures for the storage and emergency use of epinephrine
auto-injectors;
(c)  emergency follow-up procedures, including calling the emergency 911
number and contacting, if possible, the student's parent and physician; and
(d)  written materials covering the information required under this Subsection
(2).
(3)  A qualified adult shall retain for reference the written materials
prepared in accordance with Subsection (2)(d).
(4)  A public school shall permit a student to possess an epinephrine auto-
injector or possess and self-administer an epinephrine auto-injector if:
(a)  the student's parent or guardian signs a statement:
(i)  authorizing the student to possess or possess and self-administer an
epinephrine auto-injector; and
(ii)  acknowledging that the student is responsible for, and capable of,
possessing or possessing and self-administering an epinephrine auto-injector;
and
(b)  the student's health care provider provides a written statement that
states that:
(i)  it is medically appropriate for the student to possess or possess and
self-administer an epinephrine auto-injector; and
(ii)  the student should be in possession of the epinephrine auto-injector at
all times.
(5)  The Utah Department of Health, in cooperation with the state
superintendent of public instruction, shall design forms to be used by public
schools for the parental and health care providers statements described in
Subsection (6).
(6) (a)  The department:
(i)  shall approve educational programs conducted by other persons, to train
people under Subsection (6)(b) of this section, regarding the use and storage
of emergency epinephrine auto-injectors; and
(ii)  may, as funding is available, conduct educational programs to train
people regarding the use of and storage of emergency epinephrine auto-
injectors.
(b)  A person who volunteers to receive training to administer an epinephrine
auto-injector under the provisions of this Subsection (6) must demonstrate a
need for the training to the department, which may be based upon occupational,
volunteer, or family circumstances, and shall include:
(i)  camp counselors;
(ii)  scout leaders;
(iii)  forest rangers;
(iv)  tour guides; and
(v)  other persons who have or reasonably expect to have responsibility for at
least one other person as a result of the person's occupational or volunteer
status.
(7)  The department shall adopt rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to:
(a)  establish and approve training programs in accordance with this section;
and
(b)  establish a procedure for determining the need for training under
Subsection (6)(b)(v).
