63A-4-204.5.   Charter school participation in Risk Management Fund.
(1)  A charter school established under the authority of Title 53A, Chapter
1a, Part 5, The Utah Charter Schools Act, may participate in the Risk
Management Fund upon the approval of the state risk manager and the governing
body of the charter school.
(2) (a)  For purposes of administration, the state risk manager shall treat
each charter school participating in the fund as a state agency.
(b)  Each charter school participating in the fund shall comply with the
provisions of this part that affect state agencies.
(3) (a)  By no later than March 31 of each year, the risk manager shall
prepare, in writing, the information required by Subsection (3)(b) regarding
the coverage against legal liability provided a charter school employee of
this state:
(i)  by the Risk Management Fund;
(ii)  under Title 63G, Chapter 7, Utah Governmental Immunity Act of Utah; and
(iii)  under Title 52, Chapter 6, Reimbursement of Legal Fees and Costs to
Officers and Employees.
(b) (i)  The information described in Subsection (3)(a) shall include:
(A)  the eligibility requirements, if any, to receive the coverage;
(B)  the basic nature of the coverage for a charter school employee, including
what is not covered; and
(C)  whether the coverage is primary or in excess of any other coverage the
risk manager knows is commonly available to a charter school employee in this
state.
(ii)  The information described in Subsection (3)(a) may include:
(A)  comparisons the risk manager considers beneficial to a charter school
employee between:
(I)  the coverage described in Subsection (3)(a); and
(II)  other coverage the risk manager knows is commonly available to a charter
school employee in this state; and
(B)  any other information the risk manager considers appropriate.
(c)  The risk manager shall provide the information prepared under this
Subsection (3) to each charter school that participates in the Risk Management
Fund.
(d)  A charter school that participates in the Risk Management Fund shall
provide a copy of the information described in Subsection (3)(c) to each
charter school employee within the charter school:
(i)  within 30 days of the day the charter school employee is hired by the
charter school; and
(ii)  by no later than April 15 of each calendar year.
