78A-2-305.   Effect of filing affidavit -- Procedure for review and
collection.
(1) (a)  Upon receipt of the oath or affirmation filed with any Utah court by
a prisoner, the court shall immediately request the institution or facility
where the prisoner is incarcerated to provide an account statement detailing
all financial activities in the prisoner's trust account for the previous six
months or since the time of incarceration, whichever is shorter.
(b)  The incarcerating facility shall:
(i)  prepare and produce to the court the prisoner's six-month trust account
statement, current trust account balance, and aggregate disposable income; and
(ii)  calculate aggregate disposable income by totaling all deposits made in
the prisoner's trust account during the six-month period and subtracting all
funds automatically deducted or otherwise garnished from the account during
the same period.
(2)  The court shall:
(a)  review both the affidavit of impecuniosity and the financial account
statement; and
(b)  based upon the review, independently determine whether or not the
prisoner is financially capable of paying all the regular fees and costs
associated with filing the action.
(3)  When the court concludes that the prisoner is unable to pay full fees and
costs, the court shall assess an initial partial filing fee equal to 50% of
the prisoner's current trust account balance or 10% of the prisoner's six-
month aggregate disposable income, whichever is greater.
(4) (a)  After payment of the initial partial filing fee, the court shall
require the prisoner to make monthly payments of 20% of the preceding month's
aggregate disposable income until the regular filing fee associated with the
civil action is paid in full.
(b)  The agency having custody of the prisoner shall:
(i)  garnish the prisoner's account each month; and
(ii) once the collected fees exceed $10, forward payments to the clerk of the
court until the filing fees are paid.
(c)  Nothing in this section may be construed to prevent the agency having
custody of the prisoner from withdrawing funds from the prisoner's account to
pay court-ordered restitution.
(5)  Collection of the filing fees continues despite dismissal of the action.
(6)  The filing fee collected may not exceed the amount of fees permitted by
statute for the commencement of a civil action or an appeal of a civil action.
(7)  If the prisoner is filing an initial divorce action or an action to
obtain custody of the prisoner's children, the following procedures shall
apply for review and collection of fees and costs:
(a)  Upon filing an oath or affirmation with any Utah court by a prisoner, the
court shall review the affidavit and make an independent determination based
on the information provided whether court costs and fees should be paid in
full or be waived in whole or in part.  The court shall require a full or
partial filing fee when the prisoner's financial information demonstrates an
ability to pay the applicable court fees or costs.
(b) (i)  If a prisoner's court fees or costs are completely waived, and if the
prisoner files an appeal, the court shall immediately file any complaint or
papers on appeal and complete all necessary action as promptly as if the
litigant had paid all the fees and costs in full.
(ii)  If a prisoner is impecunious, the constable and sheriff shall
immediately serve any summonses, writs, process and subpoenas, and papers
necessary in the prosecution or defense of the cause as if all the necessary
fees and costs had been paid in full.
(c) (i)  If a prisoner files an affidavit of impecuniosity, the judge shall
question the prisoner at the time of the hearing on the merits of the case as
to the prisoner's ability to pay.
(ii)  If the judge determines that the prisoner is reasonably able to pay
court fees and costs, the final order or decree shall be entered, however the
prisoner may not seek enforcement or modification of the decree or order until
the prisoner has paid the fees or costs in full.
(iii)  A judge may waive the restrictions placed on the prisoner in Subsection
(7)(c)(ii) upon a showing of good cause.
