78A-2-408.   Transcripts and copies -- Fees.

(1)  The Judicial Council shall by rule provide for a standard page format for transcripts of court hearings.

(2) (a)  The fee for a transcript of a court session, or any part of a court session, shall be $3.50 per page, which includes the initial preparation of the transcript and one certified copy.  The preparer shall deposit the original text file and printed transcript with the clerk of the court and provide the person requesting the transcript with the certified copy.  The cost of additional copies shall be as provided in Subsection 78A-2-301(1).  The transcript for an appeal shall be prepared within the time period permitted by the rules of Appellate Procedure.  The fee for a transcript prepared within three business days of the request shall be 1-1/2 times the base rate.  The fee for a transcript prepared within one business day of the request shall be double the base rate.

(b)  When a transcript is ordered by the court, the fees shall be paid by the parties to the action in equal proportion or as ordered by the court.  The fee for a transcript in a criminal case in which the defendant is found to be impecunious shall be paid pursuant to Section 77-32-305.

(c)  There is established within the General Fund a restricted account known as the Court Reporting Technology Account.  The clerk of the court shall transfer to the state treasurer for deposit into this account all fees received under this section.  The state court administrator may draw upon this account for the purchase, development, and maintenance of court reporting technologies, information technology, and other expenses necessary for maintaining a verbatim record of court sessions.

(3)  The fee for the preparation of a transcript of a court hearing by an official court transcriber and the fee for the preparation of the transcript by a certified court reporter of a hearing before any court, referee, master, board, or commission of this state shall be as provided in Subsection (2)(a), and shall be payable to the person preparing the transcript.



Amended by Chapter 143, 2011 General Session

