78A-2-502.   Creation of policy board -- Membership -- Terms -- Chair --
Quorum -- Expenses.
(1)  There is created a 13 member policy board to be known as the "Online
Court Assistance Program Policy Board" which shall:
(a)  identify the subject matter included in the Online Court Assistance
Program;
(b) develop information and forms in conformity with the rules of procedure
and evidence; and
(c)  advise the Administrative Office of the Courts regarding the
administration of the program.
(2)  The voting membership shall consist of:
(a)  two members of the House of Representatives designated by the speaker,
with one member from each party;
(b)  two members of the Senate designated by the president, with one member
from each party;
(c)  two attorneys actively practicing in domestic relations designated by the
Family Law Section of the Utah State Bar;
(d)  one attorney actively practicing in civil litigation designated by the
Civil Litigation Section of the Utah State Bar;
(e)  one court commissioner designated by the chief justice of the Utah
Supreme Court;
(f)  one district court judge designated by the chief justice of the Utah
Supreme Court;
(g)  one attorney from Utah Legal Services designated by its director;
(h)  one attorney from Legal Aid designated by its director; and
(i)  two persons from the Administrative Office of the Courts designated by
the state court administrator.
(3) (a)  The terms of the members shall be four years and staggered so that
approximately half of the board expires every two years.
(b)  The board shall meet as needed.
(4)  The board shall select one of its members to serve as chair.
(5)  A majority of the members of the board constitutes a quorum.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c)  Legislators on the committee shall receive compensation and expenses as
provided by law and legislative rule.
