71-11-7.   Veterans' Nursing Home Advisory Boards.

(1) (a)  Each home shall have a Veterans' Nursing Home Advisory Board to act as a liaison between the residents, members of the public, and the administration of the home.

(b)  The board shall interview candidates for the position of nursing home administrator and make a recommendation to the department.

(2)  Each board shall consist of the following seven members:

(a)  one resident of the home appointed by the governor;

(b)  two members of the Veterans' Advisory Council, designated by the governor, one of which shall specifically be designated as the board's representative to the council;

(c)  one veteran from the area in which the home is located appointed by the governor;

(d)  one representative from the VA Health Care System, appointed by its director;

(e)  one representative from the Department of Health, appointed by its executive director; and

(f)  one representative from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs regional office.

(3) (a) (i)  Members shall serve for four-year terms.

(ii)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current board members expire, the governor shall appoint each new or reappointed member to a four-year term beginning on July 1.

(b)  The governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately half of the board is appointed every two years.

(c)  The governor shall make final appointments to the board by June 30 of any year in which appointments are to be made under this chapter.

(4)  Vacancies shall be filled by the governor within 60 days of receiving notice of a vacancy, but only for the unexpired term of the vacated member.

(5) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b), members may not serve more than two consecutive terms.

(b)  Members appointed by the VA Health Care System and the United States Department of Veterans Affairs are exempt from the term limit requirement.

(6)  Each board shall elect a chair annually from among its members at its first meeting after July 1.

(7)  Each board shall meet at least quarterly.

(8)  Four members of the board constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

(9)  Each board shall provide copies of all minutes and an annual report of its activities by June 30 of each year to the executive director of the Department of Veterans' Affairs, and the Veterans' Advisory Council.

(10)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 286, 2010 General Session

