32A-6-105 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Operational restrictions.
Each person granted a special use permit and the employees and management
personnel of the permittee shall abide by the following conditions and
requirements.  Failure to comply may result in a revocation of the permit, or
other disciplinary action taken against individual employees or management
personnel.  Suspension or revocation of a permit may be done by the commission
with or without cause.
(1)  Where authorized by the permit, a permittee may purchase and receive non-
consumable alcoholic products directly from a manufacturer for industrial,
educational, scientific, manufacturing, or health care facility use purposes.
(2)  Except as otherwise provided, liquor may not be purchased by any
permittee except from state stores or package agencies.  Liquor so purchased
may be transported by the permittee from the place of purchase to the
permittee's premises.  All liquor shall be purchased at prices set by the
commission.
(3)  Alcoholic products may not be stored, used, manufactured, blended, sold,
or consumed in any place other than as designated in the permittee's
application.
(4)  A permittee may not purchase, store, sell, use, consume, or manufacture
any alcoholic products for any purpose other than that authorized by the
special use permit.
(5) Except as otherwise provided, alcoholic products may not be sold, served,
or otherwise furnished to any:
(a)  minor;
(b)  person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;
(c)  known habitual drunkard; or
(d)  known interdicted person.
(6)  Each permittee shall keep records and accounts, as required by commission
rule, of all alcoholic products purchased, manufactured, used, and sold.
(7) A special use permit may not be transferred from one location to another,
without prior written approval of the commission.
(8) A special use permittee may not sell, transfer, assign, exchange, barter,
give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the permit to any other person
whether for monetary gain or not.
