75-1-201.   General definitions.
Subject to additional definitions contained in the subsequent chapters that
are applicable to specific chapters, parts, or sections, and unless the
context otherwise requires, in this code:
(1)  "Agent" includes an attorney-in-fact under a durable or nondurable power
of attorney, an individual authorized to make decisions concerning another's
health care, and an individual authorized to make decisions for another under
a natural death act.
(2)  "Application" means a written request to the registrar for an order of
informal probate or appointment under Title 75, Chapter 3, Part 3, Informal
Probate and Appointment Proceedings.
(3)  "Beneficiary," as it relates to trust beneficiaries, includes a person
who has any present or future interest, vested or contingent, and also
includes the owner of an interest by assignment or other transfer; as it
relates to a charitable trust, includes any person entitled to enforce the
trust; as it relates to a "beneficiary of a beneficiary designation," refers
to a beneficiary of an insurance or annuity policy, of an account with POD
designation, of a security registered in beneficiary form (TOD), or of a
pension, profit-sharing, retirement, or similar benefit plan, or other
nonprobate transfer at death; and, as it relates to a "beneficiary designated
in a governing instrument," includes a grantee of a deed, a devisee, a trust
beneficiary, a beneficiary of a beneficiary designation, a donee, appointee,
or taker in default of a power of appointment, and a person in whose favor a
power of attorney or a power held in any individual, fiduciary, or
representative capacity is exercised.
(4)  "Beneficiary designation" refers to a governing instrument naming a
beneficiary of an insurance or annuity policy, of an account with POD
designation, of a security registered in beneficiary form (TOD), or of a
pension, profit-sharing, retirement, or similar benefit plan, or other
nonprobate transfer at death.
(5)  "Child" includes any individual entitled to take as a child under this
code by intestate succession from the parent whose relationship is involved
and excludes any person who is only a stepchild, a foster child, a grandchild,
or any more remote descendant.
(6)  "Claims," in respect to estates of decedents and protected persons,
includes liabilities of the decedent or protected person, whether arising in
contract, in tort, or otherwise, and liabilities of the estate which arise at
or after the death of the decedent or after the appointment of a conservator,
including funeral expenses and expenses of administration.  "Claims" does not
include estate or inheritance taxes, or demands or disputes regarding title of
a decedent or protected person to specific assets alleged to be included in
the estate.
(7)  "Conservator" means a person who is appointed by a court to manage the
estate of a protected person.
(8)  "Court" means any of the courts of record in this state having
jurisdiction in matters relating to the affairs of decedents.
(9)  "Descendant" of an individual means all of his descendants of all
generations, with the relationship of parent and child at each generation
being determined by the definition of child and parent contained in this
title.
(10)  "Devise," when used as a noun, means a testamentary disposition of real
or personal property and, when used as a verb, means to dispose of real or
personal property by will.
(11)  "Devisee" means any person designated in a will to receive a devise.
For the purposes of Title 75, Chapter 3, Probate of Wills and Administration,
in the case of a devise to an existing trust or trustee, or to a trustee in
trust described by will, the trust or trustee is the devisee, and the
beneficiaries are not devisees.
(12)  "Disability" means cause for a protective order as described by Section
75-5-401.
(13)  "Distributee" means any person who has received property of a decedent
from his personal representative other than as a creditor or purchaser.  A
testamentary trustee is a distributee only to the extent of distributed assets
or increment thereto remaining in his hands.  A beneficiary of a testamentary
trust to whom the trustee has distributed property received from a personal
representative is a distributee of the personal representative.  For purposes
of this provision, "testamentary trustee" includes a trustee to whom assets
are transferred by will, to the extent of the devised assets.
(14)  "Estate" includes the property of the decedent, trust, or other person
whose affairs are subject to this title as originally constituted and as it
exists from time to time during administration.
(15)  "Exempt property" means that property of a decedent's estate which is
described in Section 75-2-403.
(16)  "Fiduciary" includes a personal representative, guardian, conservator,
and trustee.
(17)  "Foreign personal representative" means a personal representative of
another jurisdiction.
(18)  "Formal proceedings" means proceedings conducted before a judge with
notice to interested persons.
(19)  "Governing instrument" means a deed, will, trust, insurance or annuity
policy, account with POD designation, security registered in beneficiary form
(TOD), pension, profit-sharing, retirement, or similar benefit plan,
instrument creating or exercising a power of appointment or a power of
attorney, or a dispositive, appointive, or nominative instrument of any
similar type.
(20)  "Guardian" means a person who has qualified as a guardian of a minor or
incapacitated person pursuant to testamentary or court appointment, or by
written instrument as provided in Section 75-5-202.5, but excludes one who is
merely a guardian ad litem.
(21)  "Heirs," except as controlled by Section 75-2-711, means persons,
including the surviving spouse and state, who are entitled under the statutes
of intestate succession to the property of a decedent.
(22)  "Incapacitated person" means any person who is impaired by reason of
mental illness, mental deficiency, physical illness or disability, chronic use
of drugs, chronic intoxication, or other cause, except minority, to the extent
of lacking sufficient understanding or capacity to make or communicate
responsible decisions.
(23)  "Informal proceedings" mean those conducted without notice to interested
persons by an officer of the court acting as a registrar for probate of a will
or appointment of a personal representative.
(24)  "Interested person" includes heirs, devisees, children, spouses,
creditors, beneficiaries, and any others having a property right in or claim
against a trust estate or the estate of a decedent, ward, or protected person.
It also includes persons having priority for appointment as personal
representative, other fiduciaries representing interested persons, a settlor
of a trust, if living, or the settlor's legal representative, if any, if the
settlor is living but incapacitated.  The meaning as it relates to particular
persons may vary from time to time and shall be determined according to the
particular purposes of, and matter involved in, any proceeding.
(25)  "Issue" of a person means descendant as defined in Subsection (9).
(26)  "Joint tenants with the right of survivorship" and "community property
with the right of survivorship" includes coowners of property held under
circumstances that entitle one or more to the whole of the property on the
death of the other or others, but excludes forms of coownership registration
in which the underlying ownership of each party is in proportion to that
party's contribution.
(27)  "Lease" includes an oil, gas, or other mineral lease.
(28)  "Letters" includes letters testamentary, letters of guardianship,
letters of administration, and letters of conservatorship.
(29)  "Minor" means a person who is under 18 years of age.
(30)  "Mortgage" means any conveyance, agreement, or arrangement in which
property is used as security.
(31)  "Nonresident decedent" means a decedent who was domiciled in another
jurisdiction at the time of his death.
(32)  "Organization" includes a corporation, limited liability company,
business trust, estate, trust, partnership, joint venture, association,
government or governmental subdivision or agency, or any other legal or
commercial entity.
(33)  "Parent" includes any person entitled to take, or who would be entitled
to take if the child died without a will, as a parent under this code by
intestate succession from the child whose relationship is in question and
excludes any person who is only a stepparent, foster parent, or grandparent.
(34)  "Payor" means a trustee, insurer, business entity, employer, government,
governmental agency or subdivision, or any other person authorized or
obligated by law or a governing instrument to make payments.
(35)  "Person" means an individual or an organization.
(36) (a)  "Personal representative" includes executor, administrator,
successor personal representative, special administrator, and persons who
perform substantially the same function under the law governing their status.
(b)  "General personal representative" excludes special administrator.
(37)  "Petition" means a written request to the court for an order after
notice.
(38)  "Proceeding" includes action at law and suit in equity.
(39)  "Property" includes both real and personal property or any interest
therein and means anything that may be the subject of ownership.
(40)  "Protected person" means a person for whom a conservator has been
appointed.  A "minor protected person" means a minor for whom a conservator
has been appointed because of minority.
(41)  "Protective proceeding" means a proceeding described in Section
75-5-401.
(42)  "Registrar" refers to the official of the court designated to perform
the functions of registrar as provided in Section 75-1-307.
(43)  "Security" includes any note, stock, treasury stock, bond, debenture,
evidence of indebtedness, certificate of interest, or participation in an oil,
gas, or mining title or lease or in payments out of production under such a
title or lease, collateral trust certificate, transferable share, voting trust
certificate, and, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a
security, or any certificate of interest or participation, any temporary or
interim certificate, receipt, or certificate of deposit for, or any warrant or
right to subscribe to or purchase, any of the foregoing.
(44)  "Settlement," in reference to a decedent's estate, includes the full
process of administration, distribution, and closing.
(45)  "Special administrator" means a personal representative as described in
Sections 75-3-614 through 75-3-618.
(46)  "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or insular possession subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States, or a Native American tribe or band
recognized by federal law or formally acknowledged by a state.
(47)  "Successor personal representative" means a personal representative,
other than a special administrator, who is appointed to succeed a previously
appointed personal representative.
(48)  "Successors" means persons, other than creditors, who are entitled to
property of a decedent under the decedent's will or this title.
(49)  "Supervised administration" refers to the proceedings described in Title
75, Chapter 3, Part 5, Supervised Administration.
(50)  "Survive," except for purposes of Part 3 of Article VI, Uniform TOD
Security Registration Act, means that an individual has neither predeceased an
event, including the death of another individual, nor is considered to have
predeceased an event under Section 75-2-104 or 75-2-702.  The term includes
its derivatives, such as "survives," "survived," "survivor," and "surviving."
(51)  "Testacy proceeding" means a proceeding to establish a will or determine
intestacy.
(52)  "Testator" includes an individual of either sex.
(53)  "Trust" includes a health savings account, as defined in Section 223,
Internal Revenue Code, any express trust, private or charitable, with
additions thereto, wherever and however created.  The term also includes a
trust created or determined by judgment or decree under which the trust is to
be administered in the manner of an express trust.  The term excludes other
constructive trusts, and it excludes resulting trusts, conservatorships,
personal representatives, trust accounts as defined in Title 75, Chapter 6,
Nonprobate Transfers, custodial arrangements pursuant to any Uniform Transfers
To Minors Act, business trusts providing for certificates to be issued to
beneficiaries, common trust funds, voting trusts, preneed funeral plans under
Title 58, Chapter 9, Funeral Services Licensing Act, security arrangements,
liquidation trusts, and trusts for the primary purpose of paying debts,
dividends, interest, salaries, wages, profits, pensions, or employee benefits
of any kind, and any arrangement under which a person is nominee or escrowee
for another.
(54)  "Trustee" includes an original, additional, and successor trustee, and
cotrustee, whether or not appointed or confirmed by the court.
(55)  "Ward" means a person for whom a guardian has been appointed.  A "minor
ward" is a minor for whom a guardian has been appointed solely because of
minority.
(56)  "Will" includes codicil and any testamentary instrument which merely
appoints an executor, revokes or revises another will, nominates a guardian,
or expressly excludes or limits the right of an individual or class to succeed
to property of the decedent passing by intestate succession.
