31A-19a-203.   Rate filings.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsections (4) and (5), every authorized
insurer and every rate service organization licensed under Section 31A-19a-301
that has been designated by any insurer for the filing of pure premium rates
under Subsection 31A-19a-205(2) shall file with the commissioner the following
for use in this state:
(i)  all rates;
(ii)  all supplementary information; and
(iii)  all changes and amendments to rates and supplementary information.
(b)  An insurer shall file its rates by filing:
(i)  its final rates; or
(ii)  either of the following to be applied to pure premium rates that have
been filed by a rate service organization on behalf of the insurer as
permitted by Section 31A-19a-205:
(A)  a multiplier; or
(B) (I)  a multiplier; and
(II)  an expense constant adjustment.
(c)  Every filing under this Subsection (1) shall state:
(i)  the effective date of the rates; and
(ii)  the character and extent of the coverage contemplated.
(d)  Except for workers' compensation rates filed under Sections 31A-19a-405
and 31A-19a-406, each filing shall be within 30 days after the rates and
supplementary information, changes, and amendments are effective.
(e)  A rate filing is considered filed when it has been received:
(i)  with the applicable filing fee as prescribed under Section 31A-3-103; and
(ii)  pursuant to procedures established by the commissioner.
(f)  The commissioner may by rule prescribe procedures for submitting rate
filings by electronic means.
(2) (a)  To show compliance with Section 31A-19a-201, at the same time as the
filing of the rate and supplementary rate information, an insurer shall file
all supporting information to be used in support of or in conjunction with a
rate.
(b)  If the rate filing provides for a modification or revision of a
previously filed rate, the insurer is required to file only the supporting
information that supports the modification or revision.
(c)  If the commissioner determines that the insurer did not file sufficient
supporting information, the commissioner shall inform the insurer in writing
of the lack of sufficient supporting information.
(d)  If the insurer does not provide the necessary supporting information
within 45 calendar days of the date on which the commissioner mailed notice
under Subsection (2)(c), the rate filing may be:
(i)  considered incomplete and unfiled; and
(ii)  returned to the insurer as:
(A)  not filed; and
(B)  not available for use.
(e)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(d), the commissioner may extend the time
period for filing supporting information.
(f)  If a rate filing is returned to an insurer as not filed and not available
for use under Subsection (2)(d), the insurer may not use the rate filing for
any policy issued or renewed on or after 60 calendar days from the date the
rate filing was returned.
(3)  At the request of the commissioner, an insurer using the services of a
rate service organization shall provide a description of the rationale for
using the services of the rate service organization, including the insurer's:
(a)  own information; and
(b)  method of use of the rate service organization's information.
(4) (a)  An insurer may not make or issue a contract or policy except in
accordance with the rate filings that are in effect for the insurer as
provided in this chapter.
(b)  Subsection (4)(a) does not apply to contracts or policies for inland
marine risks for which filings are not required.
(5)  Subsection (1) does not apply to inland marine risks, which, by general
custom, are not written according to standardized manual rules or rating
plans.
(6) (a)  The insurer may file a written application, stating the insurer's
reasons for using a higher rate than that otherwise applicable to a specific
risk.
(b)  If the application described in Subsection (6)(a) is filed with and not
disapproved by the commissioner within ten days after filing, the higher rate
may be applied to the specific risk.
(c)  The rate described in this Subsection (6) may be disapproved without a
hearing.
(d)  If disapproved, the rate otherwise applicable applies from the effective
date of the policy, but the insurer may cancel the policy pro rata on ten
days' notice to the policyholder.
(e)  If the insurer does not cancel the policy under Subsection (6)(d), the
insurer shall refund any excess premium from the effective date of the policy.
(7) (a)  Agreements may be made between insurers on the use of reasonable rate
modifications for insurance provided under Section 31A-22-310.
(b)  The rate modifications described in Subsection (7)(a) shall be filed
immediately upon agreement by the insurers.
