31A-19a-206.   Disapproval of rates.
(1) (a)  Except for a conflict with the requirements of Section 31A-19a-201 or
31A-19a-202, the commissioner may disapprove a rate at any time that the rate
directly conflicts with:
(i)  this title; or
(ii)  any rule made under this title.
(b)  The disapproval under Subsection (1)(a) shall:
(i)  be in writing;
(ii)  specify the statute or rule with which the filing conflicts; and
(iii)  state when the rule is no longer effective.
(c) (i)  If an insurer's or rate service organization's rate filing is
disapproved under Subsection (1)(a), the insurer or rate service organization
may request a hearing on the disapproval within 30 calendar days of the date
on which the order described in Subsection (1)(a) is issued.
(ii)  If a hearing is requested under Subsection (1)(c)(i), the commissioner
shall schedule the hearing within 30 calendar days of the date on which the
commissioner receives the request for a hearing.
(iii)  After the hearing, the commissioner shall issue an order:
(A)  approving the rate filing; or
(B)  disapproving the rate filing.
(2) (a)  If within 90 calendar days of the date on which a rate filing is
filed the commissioner finds that the rate filing does not meet the
requirements of Section 31A-19a-201 or 31A-19a-202, the commissioner shall
send a written order disapproving the rate filing to the insurer or rate
organization that made the filing.
(b)  The order described in Subsection (2)(a) shall specify how the rate
filing fails to meet the requirements of Section 31A-19a-201 or 31A-19a-202.
(c) (i)  If an insurer's or rate service organization's rate filing is
disapproved under Subsection (2)(a), the insurer or rate service organization
may request a hearing on the disapproval within 30 calendar days of the date
on which the order described in Subsection (2)(a) is issued.
(ii)  If a hearing is requested under Subsection (2)(c)(i), the commissioner
shall schedule the hearing within 30 calendar days of the date on which the
commissioner receives the request for a hearing.
(iii)  After the hearing, the commissioner shall issue an order:
(A)  approving the rate filing; or
(B) (I)  disapproving the rate filing; and
(II)  stating when, within a reasonable time from the date on which the order
is issued, the rate is no longer effective.
(d)  In a hearing held under this Subsection (2), the insurer or rate service
organization bears the burden of proving compliance with the requirements of
Section 31A-19a-201 or 31A-19a-202.
(3) (a)  If the order described in Subsection (2)(a) is issued after the
implementation of the rate filing, the commissioner may order that use of the
rate filing be discontinued for any policy issued or renewed on or after a
date not less than 30 calendar days from the date the order was issued.
(b)  If an insurer or rate service organization requests a hearing under
Subsection (2), the order to discontinue use of the rate filing is stayed:
(i)  beginning on the date the insurer or rate service organization requests a
hearing; and
(ii)  ending on the date the commissioner issues an order after the hearing
that addresses the stay.
(4)  If the order described in Subsection (2)(a) is issued before the
implementation of the rate filing:
(a)  an insurer or rate service organization may not implement the rate
filing; and
(b)  the rates of the insurer or rate service organization at the time of
disapproval continue to be in effect.
(5) (a)  If after a hearing the commissioner finds that a rate that has been
previously filed and has been in effect for more than 90 calendar days no
longer meets the requirements of Section 31A-19a-201 or 31A-19a-202, the
commissioner may order that use of the rate by any insurer or rate service
organization be discontinued.
(b)  The commissioner shall give any insurer that will be affected by an order
that may be issued under Subsection (5)(a) notice of the hearing at least 10
business days prior to the hearing.
(c)  The order issued under Subsection (5)(a) shall:
(i)  be in writing;
(ii)  state the grounds for the order; and
(iii)  state when, within a reasonable time from the date on which the order
is issued, the rate is no longer effective.
(d)  The order issued under Subsection (5)(a) shall not affect any contract or
policy made or issued prior to the expiration of the period set forth in the
order.
(e)  The order issued under Subsection (5)(a) may include a provision for a
premium adjustment for contracts or policies made or issued after the
effective date of the order.
(6) (a)  When an insurer has no legally effective rates as a result of the
commissioner's disapproval of rates or other act, the commissioner shall, on
the insurer's request, specify interim rates for the insurer.
(b)  An interim rate described in Subsection (6)(a):
(i)  shall be high enough to protect the interests of all parties; and
(ii)  may, when necessary to protect the policyholders, order that a specified
portion of the premiums be placed in an escrow account approved by the
commissioner.
(c)  When the new rates become effective, the commissioner shall order the
escrowed funds or any overcharge in the interim rates to be distributed
appropriately, except that minimal refunds to policyholders need not be
distributed.
