57-8-7.   Common areas and facilities.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "emergency repairs" means any repairs which if not made in a timely
manner will likely result in immediate and substantial damage to the common
areas and facilities or to another unit or units; and
(b)  "reasonable notice" means written notice which is hand delivered to the
unit at least 24 hours prior to the proposed entry.
(2)  Each unit owner shall be entitled to an undivided interest in the common
areas and facilities in the percentages or fractions expressed in the
declaration.  The declaration may allocate to each unit an undivided interest
in the common areas and facilities proportionate to either the size or par
value of the unit.  Otherwise, the declaration shall allocate to each unit an
equal undivided interest in the common areas and facilities, subject to the
following exception: each convertible space depicted on the condominium plat
shall be allocated an undivided interest in the common areas and facilities
proportionate to the size of the space vis-a-vis the aggregate size of all
units so depicted, while the remaining undivided interest in the common areas
and facilities shall be allocated equally among the other units so depicted.
The undivided interest in the common areas and facilities allocated in
accordance with this Subsection (2) shall add up to one if stated as fractions
or to 100% if stated as percentages.  If an equal undivided interest in the
common areas and facilities is allocated to each unit, the declaration may
simply state that fact and need not express the fraction or percentage so
allocated.  Otherwise, the undivided interest allocated to each unit shall be
reflected by a table in the declaration, or by an exhibit or schedule
accompanying the declaration and recorded simultaneously with it, containing
columns.  The first column shall identify the units, listing them serially or
grouping them together in the case of units to which identical undivided
interests are allocated.  Corresponding figures in the second and third
columns shall set forth the respective sizes or par values of those units and
the fraction or percentage of undivided interest in the common areas and
facilities allocated thereto.
(3)  Except as otherwise expressly provided by this act, the undivided
interest of each unit owner in the common areas and facilities as expressed in
the declaration shall have a permanent character and shall not be altered
without the consent of two-thirds of the unit owners expressed in an amended
declaration duly recorded.  The undivided interest in the common areas and
facilities shall not be separated from the unit to which it appertains and
shall be considered to be conveyed or encumbered or released from liens with
the unit even though such interest is not expressly mentioned or described in
the conveyance or other instrument.  A time period unit may not be further
divided into shorter time periods by a conveyance or disclaimer.
(4)  The common areas and facilities shall remain undivided and no unit owner
or any other person shall bring any action for partition or division of any
part thereof, unless the property has been removed from the provisions of this
act as provided in Sections 57-8-22 and 57-8-31.  Any covenants to the
contrary shall be null and void.
(5)  Each unit owner may use the common areas and facilities in accordance
with the purpose for which they were intended without hindering or encroaching
upon the lawful rights of the other unit owners.
(6)  The necessary work of maintenance, repair, and replacement of the common
areas and facilities and the making of any additions or improvements thereon
shall be carried out only as provided in this act or in the declaration or
bylaws.
(7)  The manager or management committee shall have the right to have access
to each unit:
(a)  from time to time during reasonable hours and after reasonable notice to
the occupant of the unit being entered, as may be necessary for the
maintenance, repair, or replacement of any of the common areas and facilities;
or
(b)  for making emergency repairs necessary to prevent damage to the common
areas and facilities or to another unit or units, provided that a reasonable
effort is made to provide notice to the occupant of the unit prior to entry.
