57-8-20.   Lien for nonpayment of common expenses.
(1)  Every unit owner shall pay his proportionate share of the common
expenses.  Payment shall be in the amounts and at the times determined by the
management committee in accordance with the terms of the declaration or the
bylaws.
(2) (a)  An assessment levied against each unit is a debt of the owner at the
time the assessment is made and is collectible as such.
(b)  The association is entitled to recover all expenses incurred by the
association in collecting any unpaid assessment, including reasonable attorney
fees, whether an action is brought against an owner under Subsection (3), or
whether a suit to foreclose the lien upon the unit is instituted under
Subsection (4).
(3)  Suit to recover a money judgment for any unpaid assessment is
maintainable without foreclosing or waiving the lien securing it.  The
prevailing party in the action is entitled to recover its costs of suit and
reasonable attorney fees.
(4) (a)  Subject to Subsection 57-8-37(6), if any unit owner fails or refuses
to pay an assessment when due, that amount constitutes a lien on the interest
of the owner in the property, and upon the recording of notice of lien by the
manager or management committee it is a lien upon the unit owner's interest in
the property prior to all other liens and encumbrances, recorded or
unrecorded, except:
(i)  tax and special assessment liens on the unit in favor of any assessing
unit or special improvement district; and
(ii)  encumbrances on the interest of the unit owner recorded prior to the
date such notice is recorded which by law would be a lien prior to
subsequently recorded encumbrances.
(b)  The lien for nonpayment of an assessment may be enforced by sale or
foreclosure of the unit owner's interest by the manager or management
committee.  The sale or foreclosure shall be conducted in the same manner as
foreclosures in deeds of trust or mortgages or in any other manner permitted
by law.
(c)  In any foreclosure or sale, the unit owner shall pay the costs and
expenses of such proceedings and reasonable attorney fees.  If so provided in
the declaration or bylaws, in the case of foreclosure, the owner shall pay a
reasonable rental for the unit, and the plaintiff in the foreclosure action
may require the appointment of a receiver to collect the rental without regard
to the value of the mortgage security.
(d)  Unless otherwise provided in the declaration, the manager or management
committee may bid in the unit at foreclosure or other sale and hold, lease,
mortgage, or convey the unit.
(5) (a)  When authorized in the declaration, bylaws, or rules adopted by the
management committee, if the owner fails or refuses to pay any assessment when
due, the management committee may, after giving notice and an opportunity to
be heard in accordance with Subsection (5)(b):
(i)  terminate an owner's right to receive utility services paid as a common
expense; and
(ii)  terminate an owner's right of access and use of recreational facilities.
(b)  Before terminating utility services or right of access and use of
recreational facilities under Subsection (5)(a), the manager or management
committee shall give written notice to the unit owner in the manner provided
in the declaration, bylaws, or association rules.  The notice shall state:
(i)  utility services or right of access and use of recreational facilities
will be terminated if payment of the assessment is not received within the
time provided in the declaration, bylaws, or association rules, which time
shall be stated and be at least 48 hours;
(ii)  the amount of the assessment due, including any interest or late payment
fee; and
(iii)  the right to request a hearing under Subsection (5)(c).
(c)  A unit owner who is given notice under Subsection (5)(b) may request an
informal hearing to dispute the assessment by submitting a written request to
the management committee within 14 days from the date the notice is received.
(i)  The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the standards provided
in the declaration, bylaws, or association rules.
(ii)  If a hearing is requested, utility services or right of access and use
or recreational facilities may not be terminated until after the hearing has
been conducted and a final decision has been entered.
(d)  Upon payment of the assessment due, including any interest or late
payment fee, the manager or management committee shall immediately take action
to reinstate the terminated utility services to the unit.
(e)  The remedies provided in this Subsection (5) shall only apply to
residential condominium units.
(6) (a)  If authorized in the declaration or bylaws, the owner of a unit who
is leasing the unit fails to pay any assessment for a period of more than 60
days after it is due and payable, the management committee, upon compliance
with this Subsection (6)(a), may demand the tenant to pay to the association
all future lease payments due the owner, commencing with the next monthly or
other periodic payment, until the amount due to the association is paid.
(b)  The manager or management committee must give the unit owner written
notice, in accordance with the declaration, bylaws, or association rules, of
its intent to demand full payment from the tenant.  This notice shall:
(i)  provide notice to the tenant that full payment of remaining lease
payments will commence with the next monthly or other periodic payment unless
the assessment is received within the time period provided in the declaration,
bylaws, or association rules;
(ii)  state the amount of the assessment due, including any interest or late
payment fee;
(iii)  state that any costs of collection, not to exceed $150, and other
assessments that become due may be added to the total amount due; and
(iv)  provide the requirements and rights described in Subsections (6)(b)
through (f).
(c)  If the unit owner fails to pay the amount of the assessment due by the
date specified in the notice, the manager or management committee may deliver
written notice to the tenant, in accordance with the declaration, bylaws, or
association rules, that demands future payments due to the owner be paid to
the association pursuant to Subsection (6)(d).  A copy of the notice must be
mailed to the unit owner.  The notice provided to the tenant must state:
(i)  that due to the owner's failure to pay the assessment within the time
period allowed, the owner has been notified of the management committee's
intent to collect all lease payments due to the association pursuant to
Subsection (6)(a);
(ii)  that until notification by the association that the assessment due,
including any interest or late payment fee, has been paid, all future lease
payments due to the owner are to be paid to the association; and
(iii)  payment by the tenant to the association in compliance with this
Subsection (6) will not constitute a default under the terms of the lease
agreement.  If payment is in compliance with this Subsection (6) suit or other
action may not be initiated by the owner against the tenant for failure to
pay.
(d)  All funds paid to the association pursuant to Subsection (6)(c) shall be
deposited in a separate account and disbursed to the association until the
assessment due, together with any cost of administration which may not exceed
$25, is paid in full.  Any remaining balance must be paid to the owner within
five business days of payment in full to the association.
(e)  Within five business days of payment in full of the assessment, including
any interest or late payment fee, the manager or management committee must
notify the tenant in writing that future lease payments are no longer due to
the association.  A copy of this notification must be mailed to the unit
owner.
(f)  As used in this Subsection (6), "lease" or "leasing" means regular,
exclusive occupancy of a unit by any person or persons, other than the unit
owner, for which the unit owner receives any consideration or benefit,
including a fee, service, gratuity, or emolument.
(7) (a)  The manager or management committee shall, upon the written request
of any unit owner and upon payment of a reasonable fee not to exceed $10,
issue a written statement indicating any unpaid assessments with respect to
the unit covered by the request.  This written statement of unpaid assessments
is conclusive upon the remaining unit owners and upon the manager and
management committee in favor of all persons who rely on the written statement
in good faith.
(b)  Unless the manager or management committee complies with the request for
a statement of any unpaid assessments within 10 days, all unpaid assessments
which became due prior to the date the request was made are subordinate to the
lien held by the person requesting the statement.
(8)  Any encumbrancer holding a lien on a unit may pay any unpaid assessment
due with respect to the unit.  Upon payment, the encumbrancer has a lien on
the unit for the amounts paid.
(9)  Remedies provided in this section, by law, or in equity are not
considered to be mutually exclusive.
