57-8-37.   Fines.
(1) (a)  If authorized in the declaration, bylaws, or association rules, the
management committee of a residential condominium project may assess a fine
against a unit owner after the requirements of Subsection (2) have been met
for a violation of the rules and regulations of the association of unit owners
which have been promulgated in accordance with this chapter and the
declaration and bylaws.
(b)  The management committee of a nonresidential condominium project may not
assess a fine against a unit owner.
(2)  Before assessing a fine under Subsection (1), the management committee
shall give notice to the unit owner of the violation and inform the owner that
a fine will be imposed if the violation is not cured within the time provided
in the declaration, bylaws, or association rules, which shall be at least 48
hours.
(3) (a)  A fine assessed under Subsection (1) shall:
(i)  be made only for a violation of a rule or regulation which is
specifically listed in the declaration, bylaws, or association rules as an
offense which is subject to a fine;
(ii)  be in the amount specifically provided for in the declaration, bylaws,
or association rules for that specific type of violation, not to exceed $500;
and
(iii)  accrue interest and late fees as provided in the declaration, bylaws,
or association rules.
(b)  Cumulative fines for a continuing violation may not exceed $500 per
month.
(4)  A unit owner who is assessed a fine under Subsection (1) may request an
informal hearing to protest or dispute the fine within 30 days from the date
the fine is assessed.  The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the
standards provided in the declaration, bylaws, or association rules.  No
interest or late fees may accrue until after the hearing has been conducted
and a final decision has been rendered.
(5)  A unit owner may appeal a fine issued under Subsection (1) by initiating
a civil action within 180 days after:
(a)  a hearing has been held and a final decision has been rendered by the
management committee under Subsection (4); or
(b)  the time to request an informal hearing under Subsection (4) has expired
without the unit owner making such a request.
(6)  A fine assessed under Subsection (1) which remains unpaid after the time
for appeal under Subsection (5) has expired becomes a lien against the unit
owner's interest in the property in accordance with the same standards as a
lien for the nonpayment of common expenses under Section 57-8-20.
