57-8-40.   Organization of an association of unit owners under other law --
Priority -- Reorganization.
(1)  As used in this section, "organizational documents" means the documents
related to the formation or operation of a legal entity formed by the
management committee or the declarant.
(2)  If permitted, required, or acknowledged by the declaration, the
management committee may organize an association of unit owners into a
nonprofit corporation in accordance with Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah Revised
Nonprofit Corporation Act, or other entity organized under other law.
(3)  Organizational documents for a nonprofit corporation or other entity
formed in accordance with Subsection (2) shall, to the extent possible, not
conflict with the rights and obligations found in the declaration and any of
the association's bylaws recorded at the time of the formation of a nonprofit
corporation or other entity under Subsection (2).
(4)  Notwithstanding any conflict with the declaration or any recorded bylaws,
the organizational documents of an entity formed in accordance with Subsection
(2) may include any additional indemnification and liability limitation
provision for the management committee members and officers of the association
that is permitted by the chapter under which the association is organized for
board members, directors, and officers, or similar persons in a position of
control.
(5)  In the event of a conflict between this chapter's provisions, a statute
under which the association of unit owners is organized, documents concerning
the organization of the association of unit owners as a nonprofit corporation
or other entity, the declaration, the bylaws, and association rules, the
following order prevails:
(a)  this chapter controls over a conflicting provision found in any of the
sources listed in Subsections (5)(b) through (f);
(b)  Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act, or any
other law under which an entity is organized controls over a conflicting
provision in any of the sources listed in Subsections (5)(c) through (f);
(c)  an organizational document filed in accordance with Title 16, Chapter 6a,
Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act, or any other law under which an entity
is organized controls over a conflicting provision in any of the sources
listed in Subsections (5)(d) through (f);
(d)  the declaration controls over a conflicting provision in any of the
sources listed in Subsections (5)(e) or (f);
(e)  the bylaws control over a conflicting provision in association rules; and
(f)  the association rules yield to a conflicting provision in any of the
sources listed in Subsection (5)(a) through (e).
(6)  Immediately upon the legal formation of an entity in compliance with this
section, the association and unit owners are subject to any right, obligation,
procedure, and remedy applicable to that entity.
(7) (a)  A form "articles of incorporation" or similar organizational document
attached to a declaration may be modified by the management committee for
filing or re-filing if the modified version is otherwise consistent with this
section's provisions.
(b)  An organizational document attached to a declaration that is filed and
concerns the organization of an entity may be amended in accordance with its
own terms or any applicable law, notwithstanding the fact that the
organizational document might be recorded.
(c)  Except for amended bylaws, an initial or amended organizational document
properly filed with the state does not need to be recorded.
(8)  This section applies to the reorganization of an association of unit
owners previously organized if the entity's status is terminated or dissolved
without the possibility of reinstatement.
(9) (a)  This section applies to all condominium projects, whether established
before or after May 5, 2008.
(b)  This section does not validate or invalidate the organization of an
association that occurred before May 5, 2008, whether or not the association
was otherwise in compliance with this section.
