76-6-111 (Superseded 11/01/10).   Wanton destruction of livestock -- Penalties -- Seizure and disposition of property.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Law enforcement officer" is as defined in Section 53-13-103.

(b)  "Livestock" means a domestic animal or fur bearer raised or kept for profit, including:

(i)  cattle;

(ii)  sheep;

(iii)  goats;

(iv)  swine;

(v)  horses;

(vi)  mules;

(vii)  poultry; and

(viii)  domesticated elk as defined in Section 4-39-102.

(2)  Unless authorized by Section 4-25-4, 4-25-5, 4-25-14, 4-39-401, or 18-1-3, a person is guilty of wanton destruction of livestock if that person:

(a)  injures, physically alters, releases, or causes the death of livestock; and

(b)  does so:

(i)  intentionally or knowingly; and

(ii)  without the permission of the owner of the livestock.

(3)  Wanton destruction of livestock is punishable as a:

(a)  class B misdemeanor if the aggregate value of the livestock is $300 or less;

(b)  class A misdemeanor if the aggregate value of the livestock is more than $300, but does not exceed $1,000;

(c)  third degree felony if the aggregate value of the livestock is more than $1,000, but does not exceed $5,000; and

(d)  second degree felony if the aggregate value of the livestock is more than $5,000.

(4)  A material, device, or vehicle used in violation of Subsection (2) is subject to forfeiture under the procedures and substantive protections established in Title 24, Chapter 1, Utah Uniform Forfeiture Procedures Act.

(5)  A peace officer may seize a material, device, or vehicle used in violation of Subsection (2):

(a)  upon notice and service of process issued by a court having jurisdiction over the property; or

(b)  without notice and service of process if:

(i)  the seizure is incident to an arrest under:

(A)  a search warrant; or

(B)  an inspection under an administrative inspection warrant;

(ii)  the material, device, or vehicle has been the subject of a prior judgment in favor of the state in a criminal injunction or forfeiture proceeding under this section; or

(iii)  the peace officer has probable cause to believe that the property has been used in violation of Subsection (2).

(6) (a)  A material, device, or vehicle seized under this section is not repleviable but is in custody of the law enforcement agency making the seizure, subject only to the orders and decrees of a court or official having jurisdiction.

(b)  A peace officer who seizes a material, device, or vehicle under this section may:

(i)  place the property under seal;

(ii)  remove the property to a place designated by the warrant under which it was seized; or

(iii)  take custody of the property and remove it to an appropriate location for disposition in accordance with law.

