76-6-702.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Access" means to directly or indirectly use, attempt to use, instruct,
communicate with, cause input to, cause output from, or otherwise make use of
any resources of a computer, computer system, computer network, or any means
of communication with any of them.
(2)  "Authorization" means having the express or implied consent or permission
of the owner, or of the person authorized by the owner to give consent or
permission to access a computer, computer system, or computer network in a
manner not exceeding the consent or permission.
(3)  "Computer" means any electronic device or communication facility that
stores, retrieves, processes, or transmits data.
(4)  "Computer system" means a set of related, connected or unconnected,
devices, software, or other related computer equipment.
(5)  "Computer network" means:
(a)  the interconnection of communication or telecommunication lines between:
(i)  computers; or
(ii)  computers and remote terminals; or
(b)  the interconnection by wireless technology between:
(i)  computers; or
(ii)  computers and remote terminals.
(6)  "Computer property" includes electronic impulses, electronically produced
data, information, financial instruments, software, or programs, in either
machine or human readable form, any other tangible or intangible item relating
to a computer, computer system, computer network, and copies of any of them.
(7)  "Confidential" means data, text, or computer property that is protected
by a security system that clearly evidences that the owner or custodian
intends that it not be available to others without the owner's or custodian's
permission.
(8)  "Information" does not include information obtained:
(a)  through use of:
(i)  an electronic product identification or tracking system; or
(ii)  other technology used by a retailer to identify, track, or price goods;
and
(b)  by a retailer through the use of equipment designed to read the
electronic product identification or tracking system data located within the
retailer's location.
(9)  "License or entitlement" includes:
(a)  licenses, certificates, and permits granted by governments;
(b)  degrees, diplomas, and grades awarded by educational institutions;
(c)  military ranks, grades, decorations, and awards;
(d)  membership and standing in organizations and religious institutions;
(e)  certification as a peace officer;
(f)  credit reports; and
(g)  another record or datum upon which a person may be reasonably expected to
rely in making decisions that will have a direct benefit or detriment to
another.
(10)  "Security system" means a computer, computer system, network, or
computer property that has some form of access control technology implemented,
such as encryption, password protection, other forced authentication, or
access control designed to keep out unauthorized persons.
(11)  "Services" include computer time, data manipulation, and storage
functions.
(12)  "Financial instrument" includes any check, draft, money order,
certificate of deposit, letter of credit, bill of exchange, electronic fund
transfer, automated clearing house transaction, credit card, or marketable
security.
(13)  "Software" or "program" means a series of instructions or statements in
a form acceptable to a computer, relating to the operations of the computer,
or permitting the functioning of a computer system in a manner designed to
provide results including system control programs, application programs, or
copies of any of them.
