56-1-21.5.   Railroad special agents.
(1) (a)  A railroad company may appoint one or more persons to be designated
by the railroad company as a railroad special agent for the protection of
railroad property and the protection of the persons and property of railroad
passengers and employees.
(b)  While engaged in the conduct of employment, each appointed railroad
special agent may possess and exercise the powers of a special function
officer.
(c)  The special function officer authority may be exercised only:
(i)  in the protection of passengers and employees on or about railroad
premises and in the protection of property belonging to passengers, or
belonging to or under the control of the railroad employing the special
agents; and
(ii)  in preventing and making arrest for a violation of law upon the premises
or in connection with the property.
(2) (a)  A person appointed by a railroad company to act as a railroad special
agent shall, prior to appointment, meet the qualifications established for
special function officers, pursuant to Section 53-13-105, or as otherwise
provided by law.
(b) (i)  Before the appointee performs any duties as a special agent, the
railroad company shall file the name of the appointee with the commissioner of
the Department of Public Safety.
(ii)  If the appointee meets qualifications for a special function officer,
the commissioner of the Department of Public Safety shall issue to the special
agent a certificate of authority to act as a peace officer, to continue in
effect during his employment by the railroad unless revoked by the
commissioner for cause.
(3) (a)  A railroad company appointing a special agent is responsible for any
liability arising from the acts or omissions of the special agent within the
scope of railroad employment, but is entitled to any defense to liability that
may be available to other peace officers.
(b)  Neither the state nor any of its political subdivisions is liable for any
act or omission of a railroad special agent.
