26-53-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Agent" means a coach, teacher, employee, representative, or volunteer.

(2) (a)  "Amateur sports organization" means, except as provided in Subsection (2)(b):

(i)  a sports team;

(ii)  a public or private school;

(iii)  a public or private sports league;

(iv)  a public or private sports camp; or

(v)  any other public or private organization that organizes, operates, manages, or sponsors a sporting event for its members, enrollees, or attendees.

(b)  "Amateur sports organization" does not include a professional:

(i)  team;

(ii)  league; or

(iii)  sporting event.

(3)  "Child" means an individual who is under the age of 18.

(4)  "Qualified health care provider" means a health care provider who:

(a)  is licensed under Title 58, Occupations and Professions; and

(b)  may evaluate and manage a concussion within the health care provider's scope of practice.

(5) (a)  "Sporting event" means any of the following athletic activities that is organized, operated, managed, or sponsored by an organization:

(i)  a game;

(ii)  a practice;

(iii)  a sports camp;

(iv)  a physical education class;

(v)  a competition; or

(vi)  a tryout.

(b)  "Sporting event" does not include the issuance of a lift ticket or pass by a ski resort, the use of the ticket or pass, or a ski or snowboarding class or school at a ski resort, unless the skiing or snowboarding is part of a camp, team, or competition that is organized, managed, or sponsored by the ski resort.

(6)  "Traumatic head injury" means an injury to the head arising from blunt trauma, an acceleration force, or a deceleration force, with one of the following observed or self-reported conditions attributable to the injury:

(a)  transient confusion, disorientation, or impaired consciousness;

(b)  dysfunction of memory;

(c)  loss of consciousness; or

(d)  signs of other neurological or neuropsychological dysfunction, including:

(i)  seizures;

(ii)  irritability;

(iii)  lethargy;

(iv)  vomiting;

(v)  headache;

(vi)  dizziness; or

(vii)  fatigue.

