58-31c-102.   Nurse Licensure Compact.
The Nurse Licensure Compact is hereby enacted and entered into with all other
jurisdictions that legally join in the compact, which is, in form,
substantially as follows:
NURSE LICENSURE COMPACT
ARTICLE I
FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF PURPOSE
(1)  The party states find that:
(a)  the health and safety of the public are affected by the degree of
compliance with and the effectiveness of enforcement activities related to
state nurse licensure laws;
(b)  violations of nurse licensure and other laws regulating the practice of
nursing may result in injury or harm to the public;
(c)  the expanded mobility of nurses and the use of advanced communication
technologies as part of our nation's health care delivery system require
greater coordination and cooperation among states in the areas of nurse
licensure and regulation;
(d)  new practice modalities and technology make compliance with individual
state nurse licensure laws difficult and complex; and
(e)  the current system of duplicative licensure for nurses practicing in
multiple states is cumbersome and redundant to both nurses and states.
(2)  The general purposes of this compact are to:
(a)  facilitate the states' responsibility to protect the public's health and
safety;
(b)  ensure and encourage the cooperation of party states in the areas of
nurse licensure and regulation;
(c)  facilitate the exchange of information between party states in the areas
of nurse regulation, investigation, and adverse actions;
(d)  promote compliance with the laws governing the practice of nursing in
each jurisdiction; and
(e)  invest all party states with the authority to hold a nurse accountable
for meeting all state practice laws in the state in which the patient is
located at the time care is rendered through the mutual recognition of party
state licenses.
ARTICLE II
DEFINITIONS
As used in this compact:
(1)  "Adverse action" means a home or remote state action.
(2)  "Alternative program" means a voluntary, non-disciplinary monitoring
program approved by a nurse licensing board.
(3)  "Coordinated licensure information system" means an integrated process
for collecting, storing, and sharing information on nurse licensure and
enforcement activities related to nurse licensure laws, which is administered
by a non-profit organization composed of and controlled by state nurse
licensing boards.
(4)  "Current significant investigative information" means:
(a)  investigative information that a licensing board, after a preliminary
inquiry that includes notification and an opportunity for the nurse to respond
if required by state law, has reason to believe is not groundless and, if
proved true, would indicate more than a minor infraction; or
(b)  investigative information that indicates that the nurse represents an
immediate threat to public health and safety regardless of whether the nurse
has been notified and had an opportunity to respond.
(5)  "Home state" means the party state which is the nurse's primary state of
residence.
(6)  "Home state action" means any administrative, civil, equitable, or
criminal action permitted by the home state's laws which are imposed on a
nurse by the home state's licensing board or other authority including actions
against an individual's license such as: revocation, suspension, probation, or
any other action which affects a nurse's authorization to practice.
(7)  "Licensing board" means a party state's regulatory body responsible for
issuing nurse licenses.
(8)  "Multistate licensure privilege" means current, official authority from a
remote state permitting the practice of nursing as either a registered nurse
or a licensed practical/vocational nurse in such party state.  All party
states have the authority, in accordance with existing state due process law,
to take actions against the nurse's privilege such as: revocation, suspension,
probation, or any other action which affects a nurse's authorization to
practice.
(9)  "Nurse" means a registered nurse or licensed practical/vocational nurse,
as those terms are defined by each party's state practice laws.
(10)  "Party state" means any state that has adopted this compact.
(11)  "Remote state" means a party state, other than the home state:
(a)  where the patient is located at the time nursing care is provided; or
(b)  in the case of the practice of nursing not involving a patient, in such
party state where the recipient of nursing practice is located.
(12)  "Remote state action" means:
(a)  any administrative, civil, equitable, or criminal action permitted by a
remote state's laws which are imposed on a nurse by the remote state's
licensing board or other authority including actions against an individual's
multistate licensure privilege to practice in the remote state; and
(b)  cease and desist and other injunctive or equitable orders issued by
remote states or the licensing boards thereof.
(13)  "State" means a state, territory, or possession of the United States,
the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(14)  "State practice laws" means those individual party's state laws and
regulations that govern the practice of nursing, define the scope of nursing
practice, and create the methods and grounds for imposing discipline.  "State
practice laws" does not include the initial qualifications for licensure or
requirements necessary to obtain and retain a license, except for
qualifications or requirements of the home state.
ARTICLE III
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND JURISDICTION
(1)  A license to practice registered nursing issued by a home state to a
resident in that state will be recognized by each party state as authorizing a
multistate licensure privilege to practice as a registered nurse in such party
state.  A license to practice licensed practical/vocational nursing issued by
a home state to a resident in that state will be recognized by each party
state as authorizing a multistate licensure privilege to practice as a
licensed practical/vocational nurse in such party state.  In order to obtain
or retain a license, an applicant must meet the home state's qualifications
for licensure and license renewal as well as all other applicable state laws.
(2)  Party states, in accordance with state due process laws, may limit or
revoke the multistate licensure privilege of any nurse to practice in their
state and may take any other actions under their applicable state laws
necessary to protect the health and safety of their citizens.  If a party
state takes such action, it shall promptly notify the administrator of the
coordinated licensure information system.  The administrator of the
coordinated licensure information system shall promptly notify the home state
of any such actions by remote states.
(3)  Every nurse practicing in a party state must comply with the state
practice laws of the state in which the patient is located at the time care is
rendered.  In addition, the practice of nursing is not limited to patient
care, but shall include all nursing practice as defined by the state practice
laws of a party state.  The practice of nursing will subject a nurse to the
jurisdiction of the nurse licensing board and the courts, as well as the laws,
in that party state.
(4)  This compact does not affect additional requirements imposed by states
for advanced practice registered nursing.  However, a multistate licensure
privilege to practice registered nursing granted by a party state shall be
recognized by other party states as a license to practice registered nursing
if one is required by state law as a precondition for qualifying for advanced
practice registered nurse authorization.
(5)  Individuals not residing in a party state shall continue to be able to
apply for nurse licensure as provided for under the laws of each party state.
However, the license granted to these individuals will not be recognized as
granting the privilege to practice nursing in any other party state unless
explicitly agreed to by that party state.
ARTICLE IV
APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSURE IN A PARTY STATE
(1)  Upon application for a license, the licensing board in a party state
shall ascertain, through the coordinated licensure information system, whether
the applicant has ever held, or is the holder of, a license issued by any
other party state, whether there are any restrictions on the multistate
licensure privilege, and whether any other adverse action by any state has
been taken against the license.
(2)  A nurse in a party state shall hold licensure in only one party state at
a time, issued by the home state.
(3)  A nurse who intends to change primary state of residence may apply for
licensure in the new home state in advance of such change.  However, new
licenses will not be issued by a party state until after a nurse provides
evidence of change in primary state of residence satisfactory to the new home
state's licensing board.
(4)  When a nurse changes primary state of residence by:
(a)  moving between two party states, and obtains a license from the new home
state, the license from the former home state is no longer valid;
(b)  moving from a non-party state to a party state, and obtains a license
from the new home state, the individual state license issued by the non-party
state is not affected and will remain in full force if so provided by the laws
of the non-party state;
(c)  moving from a party state to a non-party state, the license issued by the
prior home state converts to an individual state license, valid only in the
former home state, without the multistate licensure privilege to practice in
other party states.
ARTICLE V
ADVERSE ACTIONS
In addition to the General Provisions described in Article III, the following
provisions apply:
(1)  The licensing board of a remote state shall promptly report to the
administrator of the coordinated licensure information system any remote state
actions including the factual and legal basis for such action, if known.  The
licensing board of a remote state shall also promptly report any significant
current investigative information yet to result in a remote state action.  The
administrator of the coordinated licensure information system shall promptly
notify the home state of any such reports.
(2)  The licensing board of a party state shall have the authority to complete
any pending investigations for a nurse who changes primary state of residence
during the course of such investigations.  It shall also have the authority to
take appropriate action(s), and shall promptly report the conclusions of such
investigations to the administrator of the coordinated licensure information
system.  The administrator of the coordinated licensure information system
shall promptly notify the new home state of any such actions.
(3)  A remote state may take adverse action affecting the multistate licensure
privilege to practice within that party state.  However, only the home state
shall have the power to impose adverse action against the license issued by
the home state.
(4)  For purposes of imposing adverse action, the licensing board of the home
state shall give the same priority and effect to reported conduct received
from a remote state as it would if such conduct had occurred within the home
state.  In so doing, it shall apply its own state laws to determine
appropriate action.
(5)  The home state may take adverse action based on the factual findings of
the remote state, so long as each state follows its own procedures for
imposing such adverse action.
(6)  Nothing in this compact shall override a party state's decision that
participation in an alternative program may be used in lieu of licensure
action and that such participation shall remain non-public if required by the
party state's laws.  Party states must require nurses who enter any
alternative programs to agree not to practice in any other party state during
the term of the alternative program without prior authorization from such
other party state.
ARTICLE VI
ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES INVESTED IN
PARTY STATE NURSE LICENSING BOARDS
Notwithstanding any other powers, party state nurse licensing boards shall
have the authority to:
(1)  if otherwise permitted by state law, recover from the affected nurse the
costs of investigations and disposition of cases resulting from any adverse
action taken against that nurse;
(2)  issue subpoenas for both hearings and investigations which require the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence.
Subpoenas issued by a nurse licensing board in a party state for the
attendance and testimony of witnesses, and/or the production of evidence from
another party state, shall be enforced in the latter state by any court of
competent jurisdiction, according to the practice and procedure of that court
applicable to subpoenas issued in proceedings pending before it.  The issuing
authority shall pay any witness fees, travel expenses, mileage, and other fees
required by the service statutes of the state where the witnesses and/or
evidence are located;
(3)  issue cease and desist orders to limit or revoke a nurse's authority to
practice in their state; and
(4)  promulgate uniform rules and regulations as provided for in Article
VIII(3).
ARTICLE VII
COORDINATED LICENSURE INFORMATION SYSTEM
(1)  All party states shall participate in a cooperative effort to create a
coordinated data base of all licensed registered nurses and licensed
practical/vocational nurses.  This system will include information on the
licensure and disciplinary history of each nurse, as contributed by party
states, to assist in the coordination of nurse licensure and enforcement
efforts.
(2)  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all party states' licensing
boards shall promptly report adverse actions, actions against multistate
licensure privileges, any current significant investigative information yet to
result in adverse action, denials of applications, and the reasons for such
denials, to the coordinated licensure information system.
(3)  Current significant investigative information shall be transmitted
through the coordinated licensure information system only to party state
licensing boards.
(4)  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all party states' licensing
boards contributing information to the coordinated licensure information
system may designate information that may not be shared with non-party states
or disclosed to other entities or individuals without the express permission
of the contributing state.
(5)  Any personally identifiable information obtained by a party states'
licensing board from the coordinated licensure information system may not be
shared with non-party states or disclosed to other entities or individuals
except to the extent permitted by the laws of the party state contributing the
information.
(6)  Any information contributed to the coordinated licensure information
system that is subsequently required to be expunged by the laws of the party
state contributing that information, shall also be expunged from the
coordinated licensure information system.
(7)  The compact administrators, acting jointly with each other and in
consultation with the administrator of the coordinated licensure information
system, shall formulate necessary and proper procedures for the
identification, collection, and exchange of information under this compact.
ARTICLE VIII
COMPACT ADMINISTRATION AND INTERCHANGE OF INFORMATION
(1)  The head of the nurse licensing board, or his/her designee, of each party
state shall be the administrator of this compact for his/her state.
(2)  The compact administrator of each party state shall furnish to the
compact administrator of each other party state any information and documents
including, but not limited to, a uniform data set of investigations,
identifying information, licensure data, and disclosable alternative program
participation information to facilitate the administration of this compact.
(3)  Compact administrators shall have the authority to develop uniform rules
to facilitate and coordinate implementation of this compact.  These uniform
rules shall be adopted by party states under the authority invested under
Article VI(4).
ARTICLE IX
IMMUNITY
No party state or the officers or employees or agents of a party state's nurse
licensing board who acts in accordance with the provisions of this compact
shall be liable on account of any act or omission in good faith while engaged
in the performance of their duties under this compact.  Good faith in this
article shall not include willful misconduct, gross negligence, or
recklessness.
ARTICLE X
ENTRY INTO FORCE, WITHDRAWAL, AND AMENDMENT
(1)  This compact shall enter into force and become effective as to any state
when it has been enacted into the laws of that state.  Any party state may
withdraw from this compact by enacting a statute repealing the same, but no
such withdrawal shall take effect until six months after the withdrawing state
has given notice of the withdrawal to the executive heads of all other party
states.
(2)  No withdrawal shall affect the validity or applicability by the licensing
boards of states remaining party to the compact of any report of adverse
action occurring prior to the withdrawal.
(3)  Nothing contained in this compact shall be construed to invalidate or
prevent any nurse licensure agreement or other cooperative arrangement between
a party state and a non-party state that is made in accordance with the other
provisions of this compact.
(4)  This compact may be amended by the party states.  No amendment to this
compact shall become effective and binding upon the party states unless and
until it is enacted into the laws of all party states.
ARTICLE XI
CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY
(1)  This compact shall be liberally construed so as to effectuate the
purposes thereof.  The provisions of this compact shall be severable and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, or provision of this compact is declared to be
contrary to the constitution of any party state or of the United States or the
applicability thereof to any government, agency, person, or circumstance is
held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this compact and the
applicability thereof to any government, agency, person, or circumstance shall
not be affected thereby.  If this compact shall be held contrary to the
constitution of any state party thereto, the compact shall remain in full
force and effect as to the remaining party states and in full force and effect
as to the party state affected as to a severable matter.
(2)  In the event party states find a need for settling disputes arising under
this compact:
(a)  the party states may submit the issues in dispute to an arbitration panel
which will be comprised of an individual appointed by the compact
administrator in the home state; an individual appointed by the compact
administrator in the remote state(s) involved; and an individual mutually
agreed upon by the compact administrators of all the party states involved in
the dispute; and
(b)  the decision of a majority of the arbitrators shall be final and binding.
