58-68-102.   Definitions.
In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:
(1)  "ACGME" means the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education of
the American Medical Association.
(2)  "Administrative penalty" means a monetary fine imposed by the division
for acts or omissions determined to constitute unprofessional or unlawful
conduct, as a result of an adjudicative proceeding conducted in accordance
with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(3)  "AOA" means the American Osteopathic Association.
(4)  "Board" means the Osteopathic Physicians Licensing Board created in
Section 58-68-201.
(5)  "Diagnose" means:
(a)  to examine in any manner another person, parts of a person's body,
substances, fluids, or materials excreted, taken, or removed from a person's
body, or produced by a person's body, to determine the source, nature, kind,
or extent of a disease or other physical or mental condition;
(b)  to attempt to conduct an examination or determination described under
Subsection (5)(a);
(c)  to hold oneself out as making or to represent that one is making an
examination or determination as described in Subsection (5)(a); or
(d)  to make an examination or determination as described in Subsection (5)(a)
upon or from information supplied directly or indirectly by another person,
whether or not in the presence of the person making or attempting the
diagnosis or examination.
(6)  "Medical assistant" means an unlicensed individual working under the
direct and immediate supervision of a licensed osteopathic physician and
surgeon and engaged in specific tasks assigned by the licensed osteopathic
physician and surgeon in accordance with the standards and ethics of the
profession.
(7)  "Physician" means both physicians and surgeons licensed under Section
58-67-301, Utah Medical Practice Act, and osteopathic physicians and surgeons
licensed under Section 58-68-301, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act.
(8)  "Practice of osteopathic medicine" means:
(a)  to diagnose, treat, correct, administer anesthesia, or prescribe for any
human disease, ailment, injury, infirmity, deformity, pain, or other
condition, physical or mental, real or imaginary, or to attempt to do so, by
any means or instrumentality, which in whole or in part is based upon emphasis
of the importance of the musculoskeletal system and manipulative therapy in
the maintenance and restoration of health, by an individual in Utah or outside
of the state upon or for any human within the state, except that conduct
described in this Subsection (8)(a) that is performed by a person legally and
in accordance with a license issued under another chapter of this title does
not constitute the practice of medicine;
(b)  when a person not licensed as a physician directs a licensee under this
chapter to withhold or alter the health care services that the licensee has
ordered, but practice of medicine does not include any conduct under
Subsection 58-68-501(2);
(c)  to maintain an office or place of business for the purpose of doing any
of the acts described in Subsection (8)(a) whether or not for compensation; or
(d)  to use, in the conduct of any occupation or profession pertaining to the
diagnosis or treatment of human diseases or conditions, in any printed
material, stationery, letterhead, envelopes, signs, or advertisements, the
designation "doctor," "doctor of osteopathic medicine," "osteopathic
physician," "osteopathic surgeon," "osteopathic physician and surgeon," "Dr.,"
"D.O.," or any combination of these designations in any manner which might
cause a reasonable person to believe the individual using the designation is a
licensed osteopathic physician, and if the party using the designation is not
a licensed osteopathic physician, the designation must additionally contain
the description of the branch of the healing arts for which the person has a
license.
(9)  "Prescription device" means an instrument, apparatus, implement, machine,
contrivance, implant, in vitro reagent, or other similar or related article,
and any component part or accessory, which is required under federal or state
law to be prescribed by a practitioner and dispensed by or through a person or
entity licensed under this chapter or exempt from licensure under this
chapter.
(10)  "Prescription drug" means a drug that is required by federal or state
law or rule to be dispensed only by prescription or is restricted to
administration only by practitioners.
(11)  "SPEX" means the Special Purpose Examination of the Federation of State
Medical Boards.
(12)  "Unlawful conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-68-501.
(13)  "Unprofessional conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and
58-68-502 and as may be further defined by division rule.
