41-3-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Administrator" means the motor vehicle enforcement administrator.
(2)  "Agent" means a person other than a holder of any dealer's or
salesperson's license issued under this chapter, who for salary, commission,
or compensation of any kind, negotiates in any way for the sale, purchase,
order, or exchange of three or more motor vehicles for any other person in any
12-month period.
(3)  "Auction" means a dealer engaged in the business of auctioning motor
vehicles, either owned or consigned, to the general public.
(4)  "Board" means the advisory board created in Section 41-3-106.
(5)  "Body shop" means a business engaged in rebuilding, restoring, repairing,
or painting primarily the body of motor vehicles damaged by collision or
natural disaster.
(6)  "Commission" means the State Tax Commission.
(7)  "Crusher" means a person who crushes or shreds motor vehicles subject to
registration under Title 41, Chapter 1a, Motor Vehicle Act, to reduce the
useable materials and metals to a more compact size for recycling.
(8) (a)  "Dealer" means a person:
(i)  whose business in whole or in part involves selling new, used, or new and
used motor vehicles or off-highway vehicles; and
(ii)  who sells, displays for sale, or offers for sale or exchange three or
more new or used motor vehicles or off-highway vehicles in any 12-month
period.
(b)  "Dealer" includes a representative or consignee of any dealer.
(9) (a)  "Dismantler" means a person engaged in the business of dismantling
motor vehicles subject to registration under Title 41, Chapter 1a, Motor
Vehicle Act, for the resale of parts or for salvage.
(b)  "Dismantler" includes a person who dismantles three or more motor
vehicles in any 12-month period.
(10)  "Distributor" means a person who has a franchise from a manufacturer of
motor vehicles to distribute motor vehicles within this state and who in whole
or in part sells or distributes new motor vehicles to dealers or who maintains
distributor representatives.
(11)  "Distributor branch" means a branch office similarly maintained by a
distributor for the same purposes a factory branch is maintained.
(12)  "Distributor representative" means a person and each officer and
employee of the person engaged as a representative of a distributor or
distributor branch of motor vehicles to make or promote the sale of the
distributor or the distributor branch's motor vehicles, or for supervising or
contacting dealers or prospective dealers of the distributor or the
distributor branch.
(13)  "Division" means the Motor Vehicle Enforcement Division created in
Section 41-3-104.
(14)  "Factory branch" means a branch office maintained by a person who
manufactures or assembles motor vehicles for sale to distributors, motor
vehicle dealers, or who directs or supervises the factory branch's
representatives.
(15)  "Factory representative" means a person and each officer and employee of
the person engaged as a representative of a manufacturer of motor vehicles or
by a factory branch to make or promote the sale of the manufacturer's or
factory branch's motor vehicles, or for supervising or contacting the dealers
or prospective dealers of the manufacturer or the factory branch.
(16)  "Franchise" means a contract or agreement between a dealer and a
manufacturer of new motor vehicles or its distributor or factory branch by
which the dealer is authorized to sell any specified make or makes of new
motor vehicles.
(17)  "Manufacturer" means a person engaged in the business of constructing or
assembling new motor vehicles, ownership of which is customarily transferred
by a manufacturer's statement or certificate of origin, or a person who
constructs three or more new motor vehicles in any 12-month period.
(18)  "Motorcycle" has the same meaning as defined in Section 41-1a-102.
(19) (a)  "Motor vehicle" means a vehicle that is:
(i)  self-propelled;
(ii)  a trailer, travel trailer, or semitrailer; or
(iii)  an off-highway vehicle or small trailer.
(b)  "Motor vehicle" does not include:
(i)  mobile homes as defined in Section 41-1a-102;
(ii)  trailers of 750 pounds or less unladen weight; and
(iii)  farm tractors and other machines and tools used in the production,
harvesting, and care of farm products.
(20)  "New motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle that has never been titled or
registered and has been driven less than 7,500 miles, unless the motor vehicle
is an off-highway vehicle, small trailer, trailer, travel trailer, or
semitrailer, in which case the mileage limit does not apply.
(21)  "Off-highway vehicle" has the same meaning as provided in Section
41-22-2.
(22)  "Pawnbroker" means a person whose business is to lend money on security
of personal property deposited with him.
(23)  "Principal place of business" means a site or location in this state:
(a)  devoted exclusively to the business for which the dealer, manufacturer,
remanufacturer, transporter, dismantler, crusher, or body shop is licensed,
and businesses incidental to them;
(b)  sufficiently bounded by fence, chain, posts, or otherwise marked to
definitely indicate the boundary and to admit a definite description with
space adequate to permit the display of three or more new, or new and used, or
used motor vehicles and sufficient parking for the public; and
(c)  that includes a permanent enclosed building or structure large enough to
accommodate the office of the establishment and to provide a safe place to
keep the books and other records of the business, at which the principal
portion of the business is conducted and the books and records kept and
maintained.
(24)  "Remanufacturer" means a person who reconstructs used motor vehicles
subject to registration under Title 41, Chapter 1a, Motor Vehicle Act, to
change the body style and appearance of the motor vehicle or who constructs or
assembles motor vehicles from used or new and used motor vehicle parts, or who
reconstructs, constructs, or assembles three or more motor vehicles in any
12-month period.
(25)  "Salesperson" means an individual who for a salary, commission, or
compensation of any kind, is employed either directly, indirectly, regularly,
or occasionally by any new motor vehicle dealer or used motor vehicle dealer
to sell, purchase, or exchange or to negotiate for the sale, purchase, or
exchange of motor vehicles.
(26)  "Semitrailer" has the same meaning as defined in Section 41-1a-102.
(27)  "Small trailer" means a trailer that has an unladen weight of more than
750 pounds, but less than 2,000 pounds.
(28)  "Special equipment" includes a truck mounted crane, cherry picker,
material lift, post hole digger, and a utility or service body.
(29)  "Special equipment dealer" means a new or new and used motor vehicle
dealer engaged in the business of buying new incomplete motor vehicles with a
gross vehicle weight of 12,000 or more pounds and installing special equipment
on the incomplete motor vehicle.
(30)  "Trailer" has the same meaning as defined in Section 41-1a-102.
(31)  "Transporter" means a person engaged in the business of transporting
motor vehicles as described in Section 41-3-202.
(32)  "Travel trailer" has the same meaning as provided in Section 41-1a-102.
(33)  "Used motor vehicle" means a vehicle that has been titled and registered
to a purchaser other than a dealer or has been driven 7,500 or more miles,
unless the vehicle is a trailer, or semitrailer, in which case the mileage
limit does not apply.
(34)  "Wholesale motor vehicle auction" means a dealer primarily engaged in
the business of auctioning consigned motor vehicles to dealers or dismantlers
who are licensed by this or any other jurisdiction.
