41-3-106.   Board -- Creation and composition -- Appointment, terms,
compensation, and expenses of members -- Meetings -- Quorum -- Powers and
duties -- Officers' election and duties -- Voting.
(1) (a)  There is created an advisory board of five members that shall assist
and advise the administrator in the administration and enforcement of this
chapter.
(b)  The members shall be appointed by the governor from among the licensed
motor vehicle manufacturers, distributors, factory branch and distributor
branch representatives, dealers, dismantlers, transporters, remanufacturers,
and body shops.
(c) (i)  Except as required by Subsection (1)(c)(ii), each member shall be
appointed for a term of  four years or until his successor is appointed and
qualified.
(ii)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (1)(c)(i), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(d)  Three members of the board shall be selected as follows:
(i)  one from new motor vehicle dealers;
(ii)  one from used motor vehicle dealers; and
(iii)  one from manufacturers, transporters, dismantlers, crushers,
remanufacturers, and body shops.
(e)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(i)  Section 63A-3-106;
(ii)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(iii)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106
and 63A-3-107.
(f)  A majority of the members of the board constitutes a quorum and may act
upon and resolve in the name of the board any matter, thing, or question
referred to it by the administrator, or that the board has power to determine.
(g)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(2) (a)  The board shall on the first day of each July, or as soon thereafter
as practicable, elect a chair, vice chair, secretary, and assistant secretary
from among its members, who shall each hold office until his successor is
elected.
(b)  As soon as the board elects its officers, the elected secretary shall
certify the results of the election to the administrator.
(c)  The chair shall preside at all meetings of the board and the secretary
shall make a record of the proceedings, which shall be preserved in the office
of the administrator.
(d)  If the chair is absent from any meeting of the board, his duties shall be
discharged by the  vice chair, and if the secretary is absent, his duties
shall be discharged by the assistant secretary.
(e)  All members of the board may vote on any question, matter, or thing that
properly comes before it.
