41-3-202.   Licenses -- Classes and scope.
(1)  A new motor vehicle dealer's license permits the licensee to:
(a)  offer for sale, sell, or exchange new motor vehicles if the licensee
possesses a franchise from the manufacturer of the motor vehicle offered for
sale, sold, or exchanged by the licensee;
(b)  offer for sale, sell, or exchange used motor vehicles;
(c)  operate as a body shop; and
(d)  dismantle motor vehicles.
(2)  A used motor vehicle dealer's license permits the licensee to:
(a)  offer for sale, sell, or exchange used motor vehicles;
(b)  operate as a body shop; and
(c)  dismantle motor vehicles.
(3)  A new motorcycle, off-highway vehicle, and small trailer  dealer's
license permits the licensee to:
(a)  offer for sale, sell, or exchange new motorcycles, off-highway vehicles,
or small trailers if the licensee possesses a franchise from the manufacturer
of the motorcycle, off-highway vehicle, or small trailer offered for sale,
sold, or exchanged by the licensee;
(b)  offer for sale, sell, or exchange used motorcycles, off-highway vehicles,
or small trailers; and
(c)  dismantle motorcycles, off-highway vehicles, or small trailers.
(4)  A used motorcycle, off-highway vehicle, and small trailer  dealer's
license permits the licensee to:
(a)  offer for sale, sell, or exchange used motorcycles, off-highway vehicles,
and small trailers; and
(b)  dismantle motorcycles, off-highway vehicles, or small trailers.
(5) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b), a salesperson's license
permits the licensee to act as a motor vehicle salesperson and is valid for
employment with only one dealer at a time.
(b)  A licensee that has been issued a salesperson's license and that is
employed by a dealer that operates as a wholesale motor vehicle auction may be
employed by more than one dealer that operates as a wholesale motor vehicle
auction at a time.
(6) (a)  A manufacturer's license permits the licensee to construct or
assemble motor vehicles subject to registration under Title 41, Chapter 1a,
Motor Vehicle Act, at an established place of business and to remanufacture
motor vehicles.
(b)  Under rules made by the administrator, the licensee may issue and install
vehicle identification numbers on manufactured motor vehicles.
(c)  The licensee may franchise and appoint dealers to sell manufactured motor
vehicles by notifying the division of the franchise or appointment.
(7)  A transporter's license permits the licensee to transport or deliver
motor vehicles subject to registration under Title 41, Chapter 1a, Motor
Vehicle Act, from a manufacturing, assembling, or distributing point or from a
dealer, to dealers, distributors, or sales agents of a manufacturer or
remanufacturer, to or from detail or repair shops, and to financial
institutions or places of storage from points of repossession.
(8)  A dismantler's license permits the licensee to dismantle motor vehicles
subject to registration under Title 41, Chapter 1a, Motor Vehicle Act, for the
purpose of reselling parts or for salvage, or selling dismantled or salvage
vehicles to a crusher or other dismantler.
(9)  A distributor or factory branch and distributor branch's license permits
the licensee to sell and distribute new motor vehicles, parts, and accessories
to their franchised dealers.
(10)  A representative's license, for factory representatives or distributor
representatives permits the licensee to contact the licensee’s authorized
dealers for the purpose of making or promoting the sale of motor vehicles,
parts, and accessories.
(11) (a) (i)  A remanufacturer's license permits the licensee to construct,
reconstruct, assemble, or reassemble motor vehicles subject to registration
under Title 41, Chapter 1a, Motor Vehicle Act, from used or new motor vehicles
or parts.
(ii)  Evidence of ownership of parts and motor vehicles used in remanufacture
shall be available to the division upon demand.
(b)  Under rules made by the administrator, the licensee may issue and install
vehicle identification numbers on remanufactured motor vehicles.
(12)  A crusher's license permits the licensee to engage in the business of
crushing or shredding motor vehicles subject to registration under Title 41,
Chapter 1a, Motor Vehicle Act, for the purpose of reducing the useable
materials and metals to a more compact size for recycling.
(13)  A body shop's license permits the licensee to rebuild, restore, repair,
or paint primarily the  body of motor vehicles damaged by collision or natural
disaster, and to dismantle motor vehicles.
(14)  A special equipment dealer's license permits the licensee to:
(a)  buy incomplete new motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight of 12,000
or more pounds from a new motor vehicle dealer and sell the new vehicle with
the special equipment installed without a franchise from the manufacturer;
(b)  offer for sale, sell, or exchange used motor vehicles;
(c)  operate as a body shop; and
(d)  dismantle motor vehicles.
(15) (a)  A salvage vehicle buyer license permits the licensee to bid on or
purchase a vehicle with a salvage certificate as defined in Section 41-1a-1001
at any motor vehicle auction.
(b)  A salvage vehicle buyer license may only be issued to a motor vehicle
dealer, dismantler, or body shop who qualifies under rules made by the
division and is licensed in any state as a motor vehicle dealer, dismantler,
or body shop.
(c)  The division may not issue more than two salvage vehicle buyer licenses
to any one dealer, dismantler, or body shop.
(d)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the administrator shall make rules establishing qualifications of an
applicant for a salvage vehicle buyer license.  The criteria shall include:
(i)  business history;
(ii)  salvage vehicle qualifications;
(iii)  ability to properly handle and dispose of environmental hazardous
materials associated with salvage vehicles; and
(iv)  record in demonstrating compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
