41-3-301.   Sale by dealer, sale by auction -- Temporary permit -- Delivery of certificate of title or origin -- Notice to division.

(1) (a)  Each dealer licensed under Part 2, Licensing, upon the sale and delivery of any motor vehicle for which a temporary permit is issued under Section 41-3-302 shall within 45 days submit a certificate of title or manufacturer's certificate of origin for that motor vehicle, endorsed according to law, to the Motor Vehicle Division, accompanied by all documents required to obtain a new certificate of title and registration in the new owner's name.

(b)  If a temporary permit is not issued, the certificate of title or manufacturer's certificate of origin shall be delivered to the vendee, endorsed according to law, within 48 hours, unless the vendee is a dealer or dismantler in which case the title or manufacturer's certificate of origin shall be delivered within 21 days.

(c) (i)  A motor vehicle consigned to an auction and sold is considered sold by the consignor to the auction and then sold by the auction to the consignee.

(ii)  Both the consignor and auction are subject to this section.

(d) (i) (A)  A motor vehicle consigned to a wholesale motor vehicle auction and sold to a licensed dealer or dismantler is considered sold by the consignor to the licensed dealer or dismantler.

(B)  Both the consignor and the wholesale motor vehicle auction are subject to the title delivery requirements of Subsection (1)(b).

(C)  The consignor, or the wholesale motor vehicle auction as the consignor's agent, shall endorse the certificate of title according to law.  By endorsing the certificate of title as agent of the consignor, the wholesale motor  vehicle auction does not become the owner, seller, or assignor of title.

(ii) (A)  A wholesale motor vehicle auction may purchase or sell motor vehicles in its own name.

(B)  If a wholesale motor vehicle auction purchases or sells a motor vehicle in its own name, the wholesale motor vehicle auction is subject to Subsections (1)(a) and (1)(b).

(2) (a) (i)  Each dealer licensed under Part 2, Licensing, upon the sale and delivery of a motor vehicle for which a temporary permit is issued under Section 41-3-302, shall within 45 days give written notice of the sale to the Motor Vehicle Division upon a form provided by the Motor Vehicle Division.

(ii)  The notice shall contain:

(A)  the date of the sale;

(B)  the names and addresses of the dealer and the purchaser;

(C)  a description of the motor vehicle;

(D)  the motor vehicle's odometer reading at the time of the sale; and

(E)  other information required by the division.

(b)  If no temporary permit is issued, the notice shall be filed with the division within 45 days after the sale, and a duplicate copy shall be given to the purchaser at the time of sale, unless the purchaser is a dealer or dismantler.

(c)  The administrator may make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, providing that the notice required under Subsections (2)(a) and (2)(b) may be filed in electronic form or on magnetic media.

