41-3-304.   Temporary permits -- Temporary sports event registration
certificate -- Suspension or revocation of dealer's authority to issue --
Return of temporary permits to division -- Refunds -- Appeal.
(1)  The division may suspend or revoke a dealer's authority to issue a
temporary permit or a temporary sports event registration certificate under
this part if the division determines the dealer has failed to comply with this
chapter or with any rules made by the commission under this part.
(2) (a)  Suspension or revocation of authority to issue a temporary permit or
a temporary sports event registration certificate takes effect immediately
upon written notification to the dealer by the division.
(b)  Upon notification, the dealer shall immediately return all temporary
permits to the division.
(c) Subject to Subsection (2)(d), if the authority to issue a temporary permit
under Section 41-3-302 is revoked or suspended for more than 30 days, the
dealer may apply for a refund of the money paid to the division only for
temporary permits described in Section 41-3-302 that are returned prior to
issuance.
(d) Temporary permits being returned may not have ever been issued, written
on, or separated from their stubs, and shall be in useable condition.
(3)  If the division suspends or revokes a dealer's authority to issue a
temporary permit or a temporary sports event registration certificate as
provided in this section, each of the following is a violation of this chapter
and grounds for automatic suspension of the dealer's license:
(a)  failure to return a temporary permit to the division as provided in this
section; or
(b)  issuing a:
(i)  temporary permit; or
(ii)  temporary sports event registration certificate.
(4) (a) A dealer may appeal the division's suspension or revocation by filing
a written appeal with the administrator within ten days of the suspension or
revocation.
(b)  Upon receiving the dealer's written appeal, the administrator shall set a
hearing for not more than 20 days from the date the written appeal is
received.
(c)  A hearing or appeal under this section shall be conducted in accordance
with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
