41-3-306.   Temporary sports event registration -- Definitions -- Issuance -- Fees -- Expiration -- Rulemaking authority.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Distributor-provided vehicle" means a motor vehicle:

(i)  that has never been titled or registered in any state; and

(ii)  the use of which is donated by a distributor licensed under Part 2, Licensing, through a dealer licensed under Part 2, Licensing.

(b) (i)  "Event period" means a time period:

(A)  during which a sports event takes place;

(B)  not to exceed 180 consecutive calendar days; and

(C)  specified by the division on a temporary sports event registration certificate.

(ii)  "Event period" may include one or more of the following time periods if the division determines that good cause exists for including the time period within the event period:

(A)  a reasonable time period before a sports event as determined by the division; or

(B)  a reasonable time period after a sports event as determined by the division.

(c) (i)  Notwithstanding Section 41-3-102 and except as provided in Subsection (1)(c)(ii), "motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle that is subject to the uniform fee imposed by Section 59-2-405.1.

(ii)  "Motor vehicle" does not include a state-assessed commercial vehicle as defined in Section 59-2-102.

(d) (i)  "Sports event" means an amateur or professional:

(A)  sports:

(I)  game;

(II)  race; or

(III)  contest; or

(B)  athletic:

(I)  game;

(II)  race; or

(III)  contest.

(ii)  "Sports event" includes a game, race, or contest described in Subsection (1)(d)(i) that is:

(A)  an independent game, race, or contest; or

(B)  a part of another event or activity regardless of whether the other event or activity is an event or activity relating to sports or athletics.

(e)  "Temporary sports event registration certificate" means a motor vehicle certificate of registration issued by the division to a dealer in accordance with this section.

(2)  Beginning on September 1, 2001, the division may register a motor vehicle for an event period by issuing to a dealer licensed under Part 2, Licensing, a temporary sports event registration certificate if the division determines that:

(a)  the motor vehicle is a distributor-provided vehicle;

(b)  the motor vehicle will be used for a sports event within the state during the event period; and

(c)  the dealer provides the division an application stating:

(i)  the person to whom the distributor is donating use of the motor vehicle;

(ii)  the motor vehicle identification number;

(iii)  the motor vehicle:

(A)  make;

(B)  model; and

(C)  year;

(iv)  the name of the sports event;

(v)  the beginning date and ending date of the sports event; and

(vi)  any other information the division requires.

(3)  If the division issues a temporary sports event registration certificate to a dealer licensed under Part 2, Licensing:

(a)  the division:

(i)  shall specify the event period on the temporary sports event registration certificate; and

(ii)  may specify any other information on the temporary sports event registration certificate as determined by the division; and

(b)  the dealer shall for each motor vehicle for which the division issues a temporary sports event registration certificate:

(i)  pay the:

(A)  registration fees required by Chapter 1a, Part 12, Fee and Tax Requirements; and

(B)  uniform fee required by Section 59-2-405.1; and

(ii)  place the temporary sports event registration certificate in the rear license plate holder of the motor vehicle.

(4)  A temporary sports event registration certificate issued by the division under this section is valid for the event period specified on the temporary sports event registration certificate.

(5)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the commission may make rules:

(a)  specifying the information to be provided to the division by a dealer or a person using a distributor-provided vehicle in connection with the issuance of a temporary sports event registration certificate;

(b)  specifying the form for a temporary sports event registration certificate; or

(c)  defining the terms:

(i)  "reasonable time period before a sports event"; and

(ii)  "reasonable time period after a sports event."



Amended by Chapter 382, 2008 General Session

