69-2-2.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "911 emergency telephone service" means a communication system which provides citizens with rapid direct access to public emergency operation centers by dialing the telephone number "911" with the objective of reducing the response time to situations requiring law enforcement, fire, medical, rescue, and other emergency services.

(2)  "Local exchange service" means the provision of public telecommunications services by a wireline common carrier to customers within a geographic area encompassing one or more local communities as described in the carrier’s service territory maps, tariffs, price lists, or rate schedules filed with and approved by the Public Service Commission.

(3)  "Local exchange service switched access line" means the transmission facility and local switching equipment used by a wireline common carrier to connect a customer location to a carrier’s local exchange switching network for providing two-way interactive voice, or voice capable, services.

(4)  "Mobile telecommunications service" is as defined in Section 54-8b-2.

(5)  "Public agency" means any county, city, town, special service district, or public authority located within the state which provides or has authority to provide fire fighting, law enforcement, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services.

(6)  "Public safety agency" means a functional division of a public agency which provides fire fighting, law enforcement, medical, or other emergency services.

(7)  "Public safety answering point" means a facility that:

(a)  is equipped and staffed under the authority of a political subdivision; and

(b)  receives 911 calls, other calls for emergency services, and asynchronous event notifications for a defined geographic area.

(8)  "Radio communications access line" means the radio equipment and assigned customer identification number used to connect a mobile or fixed radio customer in Utah to a radio communication service provider’s network for two-way interactive voice, or voice capable, services.

(9)  "Radio communications service" means a public telecommunications service providing the capability of two-way interactive telecommunications between mobile and fixed radio customers, and between mobile or fixed radio customers and the local exchange service network customers of a wireline common carrier.  Radio communications service providers include corporations, persons or entities offering cellular telephone service, enhanced specialized mobile radio service, rural radio service, radio common carrier services, personal communications services, and any equivalent wireless public telecommunications service, as defined in 47 CFR, parts 20, 22, 24, and 90.

(10)  "Wireline common carrier" means a public telecommunications service provider that primarily uses metallic or nonmetallic cables and wires for connecting customers to its local exchange service networks.



Amended by Chapter 369, 2012 General Session

