63B-1a-102.   Commission responsibilities -- Manner of issuance -- Plan of
financing -- Registration -- Signatures -- Replacement -- Reporting.
(1)  The commission may determine by resolution:
(a)  the manner in which bonds issued under this chapter may be authorized,
sold, and issued;
(b)  to issue bonds in one or more series;
(c)  the amounts, dates, interest rates, including a variable rate or rates,
and maturity dates of the bonds;
(d)  the manner of sale, including public or private sale;
(e)  the terms and conditions of sale, including price, whether at, below, or
above face value;
(f)  the denominations, registration, exchange, form, including book-entry
only, manner of execution, manner of authentication, place and medium of
purchase, redemption terms, and tender rights of the bonds; and
(g)  other provisions and details that it considers appropriate.
(2)  The commission may, by resolution, adopt a plan of financing, which may
include terms and conditions of arrangements entered into by the commission on
behalf of the state with financial and other institutions for bond insurance,
letters of credit, standby bond purchase agreements, reimbursement agreements,
and remarketing, indexing, and tender agent agreements relating to the bonds,
including payment from any legally available source of fees, charges, or other
amounts coming due under the agreements entered into by the commission.
(3)  The commission may provide for the services and payment for the services
of one or more financial institutions or other entities, persons, or nominees,
within or outside the state, for the authentication, registration, transfer,
including record, bookkeeping, or book-entry functions, exchange, and payment
of the bonds.
(4)  The commission may provide for the calculation and payment to the United
States of whatever amounts are necessary to comply with the Internal Revenue
Code.
(5) (a)  The commission shall, by resolution, authorize a public official to
sign the bonds.
(b)  That signature may be a facsimile signature of that official that is
imprinted, engraved, stamped, or otherwise placed on the bonds.
(c)  If all signatures of public officials on the bonds are facsimile
signatures, the commission shall provide for a manual authenticating signature
on the bonds by or on behalf of a designated authentication agent.
(d)  If a public official ceases to hold office before delivery of the bonds
signed by that official, the signature or facsimile signature of the public
official is nevertheless valid for all purposes.
(6)  The commission may cause a facsimile of the state seal to be imprinted,
engraved, stamped, or otherwise placed on the bonds.
(7)  The commission shall provide an annual report of its proceedings to the
governor to include in his budget for as long as any bonds issued under this
chapter remain outstanding.
