23-23-7.   Permits -- Acreage and lands that may be included -- Posting of boundaries.

(1)  The division shall provide cooperative wildlife management unit authorizations for hunting small game or waterfowl to the cooperative wildlife management unit, free of charge.

(2)  At least 50% of the cooperative wildlife management unit authorizations for hunting small game or waterfowl provided to a cooperative wildlife management unit shall be offered for sale to the general public at the times and places designated on the application for a certificate of registration.

(3) (a)  Cooperative wildlife management units organized for hunting small game or waterfowl shall consist of private land.

(b)  At least 75% of the acreage within the boundaries of each cooperative wildlife management unit organized for the hunting of small game or waterfowl shall be open to hunting by holders of valid authorizations.

(4) (a)  The division may issue cooperative wildlife management unit permits for hunting cougar, turkey, or big game to permittees:

(i)  qualifying through a public drawing; or

(ii)  named by the cooperative wildlife management unit operator.

(b)  The Wildlife Board may specify by rule those persons who are eligible to draw a cooperative wildlife management unit permit in a public drawing.

(5) (a)  Cooperative wildlife management units organized for hunting cougar, turkey, or big game shall consist of private land to the extent practicable.  Public land may be included within a cooperative wildlife management unit if:

(i)  the public land is completely surrounded by private land or is otherwise inaccessible to the general public;

(ii)  including public land is necessary to establish a readily identifiable boundary; or

(iii)  including public land is necessary to achieve cougar, turkey, or big game management objectives.

(b)  If any public land is included within a cooperative wildlife management unit:

(i)  the landowner association shall meet applicable federal or state land use requirements on the public land; and

(ii)  the Wildlife Board shall increase the number of permits or hunting opportunities made available to the general public to reflect the proportion of public lands to private lands within the cooperative wildlife management unit.

(6)  Each landowner association shall:

(a)  clearly post all boundaries of the unit by displaying signs containing information prescribed by rule of the Wildlife Board at the locations specified in Subsection 23-20-14(1)(d); and

(b)  provide a written copy of its guidelines to each holder of an authorization or permit.

