48-1d-306.   Partner's liability.

(1)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsections (2) and (3), all partners are liable jointly and severally for all debts, obligations, and other liabilities of the partnership unless otherwise agreed to by the claimant or provided by law.

(2)  A person that becomes a partner is not personally liable for a debt, obligation, or other liability of the partnership incurred before the person became a partner.

(3)  A debt, obligation, or other liability of a partnership incurred while the partnership is a limited liability partnership is solely the debt, obligation, or other liability of the limited liability partnership.  A partner is not personally liable, directly or indirectly, by way of contribution or otherwise, for a debt, obligation, or other liability of the limited liability partnership solely by reason of being or acting as a partner.  This Subsection (3) applies:

(a)  despite anything inconsistent in the partnership agreement that existed immediately before the vote or consent required to become a limited liability partnership under Subsection 48-1d-1101(2); and

(b)  regardless of the dissolution of the limited liability partnership.

(4)  The failure of a limited liability partnership to observe any formalities relating to the exercise of its powers or management of its activities and affairs is not a ground for imposing liability on any partner of the limited liability partnership for a debt, obligation, or other liability of the limited liability partnership.

(5)  The cancellation or administrative revocation of a limited liability partnership's statement of qualification does not affect the limitation under this section on the liability of a partner for a debt, obligation, or other liability of the partnership incurred while the statement was in effect.

(6)  Subsection (3) and Part 11, Limited Liability Partnerships, do not alter any law applicable to the relationship between a person providing a professional service and a person receiving the professional service, including liability arising out of those professional services.  A person providing a professional service remains personally liable for a result of that person's act or omission.



Enacted by Chapter 412, 2013 General Session

