53A-11-101.7.   Truancy -- Notice of truancy -- Failure to cooperate with
school authorities -- Habitual truant citation.
(1)  Except as provided in Section 53A-11-102 or 53A-11-102.5, a school-age
minor who is enrolled in a public school shall attend the public school in
which the school-age minor is enrolled.
(2)  A local school board, local charter board, or school district may impose
administrative penalties on a school-age minor who is truant.
(3)  A local school board or local charter board:
(a)  may authorize a school administrator, a designee of a school
administrator, or a truancy specialist to issue notices of truancy to school-
age minors who are at least 12 years old; and
(b)  shall establish a procedure for a school-age minor, or the school-age
minor's parents, to contest a notice of truancy.
(4)  The notice of truancy described in Subsection (3):
(a)  may not be issued until the school-age minor has been truant at least
five times during the school year;
(b)  may not be issued to a school-age minor who is less than 12 years old;
(c)  shall direct the school-age minor and the parent of the school-age minor
to:
(i)  meet with school authorities to discuss the school-age minor's truancies;
and
(ii)  cooperate with the school board, local charter board, or school district
in securing regular attendance by the school-age minor; and
(d)  shall be mailed to, or served on, the school-age minor's parent.
(5)  A habitual truant citation may be issued to a habitual truant if:
(a)  the local school board, local charter board, or school district has made
reasonable efforts, under Section 53A-11-103, to resolve the school attendance
problems of the habitual truant; and
(b)  the efforts to resolve the school attendance problems, described in
Subsection (5)(a), have not been successful.
(6)  A habitual truant to whom a habitual truant citation is issued under
Subsection (5):
(a)  shall be referred to the juvenile court for violation of Subsection (1);
and
(b)  is subject to the jurisdiction of the juvenile court.
(7)  A notice of truancy or a habitual truant citation may only be issued by:
(a)  a school administrator, or a truancy specialist, who is authorized by a
local school board or local charter board; or
(b)  a designee of a school administrator described in Subsection (7)(a).
(8)  Nothing in this part prohibits a local school board, local charter board,
or school district from taking action to resolve a truancy problem with a
school-age minor who has been truant less than five times, provided that the
action does not conflict with the requirements of this part.
