53A-11-105.   Taking custody of a person believed to be a truant minor --
Disposition -- Receiving centers -- Reports -- Immunity from liability.
(1)  A peace officer or public school administrator may take a minor into
temporary custody if there is reason to believe the minor is a truant minor.
(2)  An individual taking a school-age minor into custody under Subsection (1)
shall, without unnecessary delay, release the minor to:
(a)  the principal of the minor's school;
(b)  a person who has been designated by the local school board or local
charter board to receive and return the minor to school; or
(c)  a receiving center established under Subsection (5).
(3)  If the minor refuses to return to school or go to the receiving center,
the officer or administrator shall, without unnecessary delay, notify the
minor's parents and release the minor to their custody.
(4)  If the parents cannot be reached or are unable or unwilling to accept
custody, the minor shall be referred to the Division of Child and Family
Services.
(5) (a)  A local school board or local charter board, singly or jointly with
another school board, may establish or designate receiving centers within
existing school buildings and staff the centers with existing teachers or
staff to provide educational guidance and counseling for truant minors.  Upon
receipt of a truant minor, the center shall, without unnecessary delay, notify
and direct the minor's parents to come to the center, pick up the minor, and
return the minor to the school in which the minor is enrolled.
(b)  If the parents cannot be reached or are unable or unwilling to comply
with the request within a reasonable time, the center shall take such steps as
are reasonably necessary to insure the safety and well being of the minor,
including, when appropriate, returning the minor to school or referring the
minor to the Division of Child and Family Services.  A minor taken into
custody under this section may not be placed in a detention center or other
secure confinement facility.
(6)  Action taken under this section shall be reported to the appropriate
school district.  The district shall promptly notify the minor's parents of
the action taken.
(7)  The Utah Governmental Immunity Act applies to all actions taken under
this section.
(8)  Nothing in this section may be construed to grant authority to a public
school administrator to place a minor in the custody of the Division of Child
and Family Services, without complying with the provisions of Title 62A,
Chapter 4a, Parts 2, Child Welfare Services, and 2A, Minors in Custody on
Grounds Other Than Abuse or Neglect, and of Title 78A, Chapter 6, Parts 3,
Abuse, Neglect, and Dependency Proceedings, and 4, Minors in Custody on
Grounds Other Than Abuse or Neglect.
