53A-11-203.   Vision screening.

(1)  As used in this section, "division" means the Division of Services for the Blind and Visually Impaired, State Office of Education.

(2)  A child under eight years of age entering school for the first time in this state must present the following to the school:

(a)  a certificate signed by a licensed physician, optometrist, or other licensed health professional approved by the division, stating that the child has received vision screening to determine the presence of amblyopia or other visual defects; or

(b)  a written statement signed by at least one parent or legal guardian of the child that the screening violates the personal beliefs of the parent or legal guardian.

(3) (a)  The division:

(i)  shall provide vision screening report forms to a person approved by the division to conduct a free vision screening for children aged 3-1/2 to eight; and

(ii)  may work with health care professionals, teachers, and vision screeners to develop protocols that may be used by a parent, teacher, or vision screener to help identify a child who may have conditions that are not detected in a vision screening, such as problems with eye focusing, eye tracking, visual perceptual skills, visual motor integration, and convergence insufficiency; and

(iii)  shall, once protocols are established under Subsection (3)(a)(ii), develop language regarding the vision problems identified in Subsection (3)(a)(ii) to be included in the notice required by Subsection (3)(b).

(b)  The report forms shall include the following information for a parent or guardian: "vision screening is not a substitute for a complete eye exam and vision evaluation by an eye doctor."

(4)  A school district may conduct free vision screening clinics for children aged 3-1/2 to eight.

(5) (a)  The division shall maintain a central register of children, aged 3-1/2 to eight, who fail vision screening and who are referred for follow-up treatment.

(b)  The register described in Subsection (5)(a) shall include the name of the child, age or birthdate, address, cause for referral, and follow-up results.

(c)  A school district shall report referral follow-up results for children aged 3-1/2 to eight to the division.

(6) (a)  The division shall coordinate and supervise the training of a person who serves as a vision screener for a free vision screening clinic for children aged 3-1/2 to eight.

(b)  A volunteer vision screener providing services under Subsection (6)(a) is not liable for any civil damages as a result of acts or omissions related to the vision screening unless the acts or omissions were willful or grossly negligent.

(7) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(b), a licensed health professional providing vision care to private patients may not participate as a screener in a free vision screening program provided by a school district.

(b)  A school district may:

(i)  allow a licensed health professional who provides vision care to private patients to participate as a screener in a free vision screening program for a child nine years of age or older;

(ii)  establish guidelines to administer a free vision screening program described in Subsection (7)(b)(i); and

(iii)  establish penalties for a violation of the requirements of Subsection (7)(c).

(c)  A licensed health professional or other person who participates as a screener in a free vision screening program described in Subsection (7)(b):

(i)  may not market, advertise, or promote the licensed health professional's business in connection with providing the free screening at the school; and

(ii)  shall provide the child's results of the free vision screening on a form produced by the school or school district, which:

(A)  may not include contact information other than the name of the licensed health professional; and

(B)  shall include a statement: "vision screening is not a substitute for a complete eye exam and vision evaluation by an eye doctor."

(d)  A school district may provide information to a parent or guardian of the availability of follow up vision services for a student.

(8)  The Department of Health shall:

(a)  by rule, set standards and procedures for vision screening required by this chapter, which shall include a process for notifying the parent or guardian of a child who fails a vision screening or is identified as needing follow-up care; and

(b)  provide the division with copies of rules, standards, instructions, and test charts necessary for conducting vision screening.

(9)  The division shall supervise screening, referral, and follow-up required by this chapter.



Amended by Chapter 132, 2011 General Session

