53A-11-603.   Administration of glucagon -- Training of volunteer school
personnel -- Authority to use glucagon -- Immunity from liability.
(1)  As used in this section, "glucagon authorization" means a signed
statement from a parent or guardian of a student with diabetes:
(a)  certifying that glucagon has been prescribed for the student;
(b)  requesting that the student's public school identify and train school
personnel who volunteer to be trained in the administration of glucagon in
accordance with this section; and
(c)  authorizing the administration of glucagon in an emergency to the student
in accordance with this section.
(2) (a)  A public school shall, within a reasonable time after receiving a
glucagon authorization, train two or more school personnel who volunteer to be
trained in the administration of glucagon, with training provided by the
school nurse or another qualified, licensed medical professional.
(b)  A public school shall allow all willing school personnel to receive
training in the administration of glucagon, and the school shall assist and
may not obstruct the identification or training of volunteers under this
Subsection (2).
(c)  The Utah Department of Health, in cooperation with the state
superintendent of public instruction, shall design a glucagon authorization
form to be used by public schools in accordance with this section.
(3) (a)  Training in the administration of glucagon shall include:
(i)  techniques for recognizing the symptoms that warrant the administration
of glucagon;
(ii)  standards and procedures for the storage and use of glucagon;
(iii)  other emergency procedures, including calling the emergency 911 number
and contacting, if possible, the student's parent or guardian; and
(iv)  written materials covering the information required under this
Subsection (3).
(b)  A school shall retain for reference the written materials prepared in
accordance with Subsection (3)(a)(iv).
(4)  A public school shall permit a student or school personnel to possess or
store prescribed glucagon so that it will be available for administration in
an emergency in accordance with this section.
(5) (a)  A person who has received training in accordance with this section
may administer glucagon at a school or school activity to a student with a
glucagon authorization if:
(i)  the student is exhibiting the symptoms that warrant the administration of
glucagon; and
(ii)  a licensed health care professional is not immediately available.
(b)  A person who administers glucagon in accordance with Subsection (5)(a)
shall direct a responsible person to call 911 and take other appropriate
actions in accordance with the training materials retained under Subsection
(3)(b).
(6)  School personnel who provide or receive training under this section and
act in good faith are not liable in any civil or criminal action for any act
taken or not taken under the authority of this section with respect to the
administration of glucagon.
(7)  Section 53A-11-601 does not apply to the administration of glucagon in
accordance with this section.
(8)  Section 53A-11-904 does not apply to the possession and administration of
glucagon in accordance with this section.
(9)  The unlawful or unprofessional conduct provisions of Title 58,
Occupations and Professions, do not apply to a person licensed as a health
professional under Title 58, Occupations and Professions, including a nurse,
physician, or pharmacist who, in good faith, trains nonlicensed volunteers to
administer glucagon in accordance with this section.
