53A-11-605.   Definitions -- School personnel -- Medical recommendations --
Exceptions -- Penalties.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Health care professional" means a physician, physician assistant, nurse,
dentist, or mental health therapist.
(b)  "School personnel" means any school district or charter school employee,
including licensed, part-time, contract, and nonlicensed employees.
(2)  School personnel may:
(a)  provide information and observations to a student's parent or guardian
about that student, including observations and concerns in the following
areas:
(i)  progress;
(ii)  health and wellness;
(iii)  social interactions;
(iv)  behavior; or
(v)  topics consistent with Subsection 53A-13-302(6);
(b)  communicate information and observations between school personnel
regarding a child;
(c)  refer students to other appropriate school personnel and agents,
consistent with local school board or charter school policy, including
referrals and communication with a school counselor or other mental health
professionals working within the school system;
(d)  consult or use appropriate health care professionals in the event of an
emergency while the student is at school, consistent with the student
emergency information provided at student enrollment;
(e)  exercise their authority relating to the placement within the school or
readmission of a child who may be or has been suspended or expelled for a
violation of Section 53A-11-904; and
(f)  complete a behavioral health evaluation form if requested by a student's
parent or guardian to provide information to a licensed physician.
(3)  School personnel shall:
(a)  report suspected child abuse consistent with Section 62A-4a-403;
(b)  comply with applicable state and local health department laws, rules, and
policies; and
(c)  conduct evaluations and assessments consistent with the Individuals with
Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. Sec. 1400 et seq., and its subsequent
amendments.
(4)  Except as provided in Subsection (2) and Subsection (6), school personnel
may not:
(a)  recommend to a parent or guardian that a child take or continue to take a
psychotropic medication;
(b)  require that a student take or continue to take a psychotropic medication
as a condition for attending school;
(c)  recommend that a parent or guardian seek or use a type of psychiatric or
psychological treatment for a child;
(d)  conduct a psychiatric or behavioral health evaluation or mental health
screening, test, evaluation, or assessment of a child, except where this
Subsection (4)(d) conflicts with the Individuals with Disabilities Education
Act, 20 U.S.C. Sec. 1400 et seq., and its subsequent amendments; or
(e)  make a child abuse or neglect report to authorities, including the
Division of Child and Family Services, solely or primarily on the basis that a
parent or guardian refuses to consent to:
(i)  a psychiatric, psychological, or behavioral treatment for a child,
including the administration of a psychotropic medication to a child; or
(ii)  a psychiatric or behavioral health evaluation of a child.
(5)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(e), school personnel may make a report
that would otherwise be prohibited under Subsection (4)(e) if failure to take
the action described under Subsection (4)(e) would present a serious, imminent
risk to the child's safety or the safety of others.
(6)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4), a school counselor or other mental health
professional acting in accordance with Title 58, Chapter 60, Mental Health
Professional Practice Act, or licensed through the State Board of Education,
working within the school system may:
(a)  recommend, but not require, a psychiatric or behavioral health evaluation
of a child;
(b)  recommend, but not require, psychiatric, psychological, or behavioral
treatment for a child;
(c)  conduct a psychiatric or behavioral health evaluation or mental health
screening, test, evaluation, or assessment of a child in accordance with
Section 53A-13-302; and
(d)  provide to a parent or guardian, upon the specific request of the parent
or guardian, a list of three or more health care professionals or providers,
including licensed physicians, psychologists, or other health specialists.
(7)  Local school boards or charter schools shall adopt a policy:
(a)  providing for training of appropriate school personnel on the provisions
of this section; and
(b)  indicating that an intentional violation of this section is cause for
disciplinary action consistent with local school board or charter school
policy and under Section 53A-8-104.
(8)  Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as discouraging general
communication not prohibited by this section between school personnel and a
student's parent or guardian.
