53A-11-905.   Delegation of authority to suspend or expel a student --
Procedure for suspension -- Readmission.
(1) (a)  A local board of education may delegate to any school principal or
assistant principal within the school district the power to suspend a student
in the principal's school for up to 10 school days.
(b)  A governing board of a charter school may delegate to the chief
administrative officer of the charter school the power to suspend a student in
the charter school for up to 10 school days.
(2)  The board may suspend a student for up to one school year or delegate
that power to  the district superintendent, the superintendent's designee, or
chief administrative officer of a charter school.
(3)  The board may expel a student for a fixed or indefinite period, provided
that the expulsion shall be reviewed by the district superintendent or the
superintendent's designee and the conclusions reported to the board, at least
once each year.
(4)  If a student is suspended, a designated school official shall notify the
parent or guardian of the student of the following without delay:
(a)  that the student has been suspended;
(b)  the grounds for the suspension;
(c)  the period of time for which the student is suspended; and
(d)  the time and place for the parent or guardian to meet with a designated
school official to review the suspension.
(5) (a)  A suspended student shall immediately leave the school building and
the school grounds following a determination by the school of the best way to
transfer custody of the student to the parent or guardian or other person
authorized by the parent or applicable law to accept custody of the student.
(b)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsection (5)(c), a suspended student
may not be readmitted to a public school until:
(i)  the student and the parent or guardian have met with a designated school
official to review the suspension and agreed upon a plan to avoid recurrence
of the problem; or
(ii)  in the discretion of the principal or chief administrative officer of a
charter school, the parent or guardian of the suspended student and the
student have agreed to participate in such a meeting.
(c)  A suspension may not extend beyond 10 school days unless the student and
the student's parent or guardian have been given a reasonable opportunity to
meet with a designated school official and respond to the allegations and
proposed disciplinary action.
