53A-11-907.   Student suspended or expelled -- Responsibility of parent or guardian -- Application for students with disabilities.

(1)  If a student is suspended or expelled from a public school under this part for more than 10 school days, the parent or guardian is responsible for undertaking an alternative education plan which will ensure that the student's education continues during the period of suspension or expulsion.

(2) (a)  The parent or guardian shall work with designated school officials to determine how that responsibility might best be met through private education, an alternative program offered by or through the district or charter school, or other alternative which will reasonably meet the educational needs of the student.

(b)  The parent or guardian and designated school official may enlist the cooperation of the Division of Child and Family Services, the juvenile court, or other appropriate state agencies to meet the student's educational needs.

(3)  Costs for educational services which are not provided by the school district or charter school are the responsibility of the student's parent or guardian.

(4) (a)  Each school district or charter school shall maintain a record of all suspended or expelled students and a notation of the recorded suspension or expulsion shall be attached to the individual student's transcript.

(b)  The district or charter school shall contact the parent or guardian of each suspended or expelled student under the age of 16 at least once each month to determine the student's progress.

(5) (a)  This part applies to students with disabilities to the extent permissible under applicable law or regulation.

(b)  If application of any requirement of this part to a student with a disability is not permissible under applicable law or regulation, the responsible school authority shall implement other actions consistent with the conflicting law or regulation which shall most closely correspond to the requirements of this part.

