53A-11-1202.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Bigotry" means action or advocacy of imminent action involving:
(a)  the harassment or denigration of a person or entity; or
(b)  any intent to cause a person not to freely enjoy or exercise any right
secured by the constitution or laws of the United States or the state, except
that an evaluation or prohibition may not be made of the truth or falsity of
any religious belief or expression of conscience unless the means of
expression or conduct arising therefrom violates the standards of conduct
outlined in this section, Section 53A-13-101.3, or 20 U.S.C. Section 4071(f).
(2)  "Club" means any student organization that meets during noninstructional
time.
(3)  "Conscience" means a standard based upon learned experiences, a personal
philosophy or system of belief, religious teachings or doctrine, an absolute
or external sense of right and wrong which is felt on an individual basis, a
belief in an external absolute, or any combination of the foregoing.
(4)  "Curricular club" means a club that is school sponsored and that may
receive leadership, direction, and support from the school or school district
beyond providing a meeting place during noninstructional time.  An elementary
school curricular club means a club that is organized and directed by school
sponsors at the elementary school.  A secondary school curricular club means a
club:
(a)  whose subject matter is taught or will soon be taught in a regular
course;
(b)  whose subject matter concerns the body of courses as a whole;
(c)  in which participation is required for a particular course; or
(d)  in which participation results in academic credit.
(5) (a)  "Discretionary time" means school-related time for students that is
not instructional time.
(b)  "Discretionary time" includes free time before and after school, during
lunch and between classes or on buses, and private time before athletic and
other events or activities.
(6) (a)  "Encourage criminal or delinquent conduct" means action or advocacy
of imminent action that violates any law or administrative rule.
(b)  "Encourage criminal or delinquent conduct" does not include discussions
concerning changing of laws or rules, or actions taken through lawfully
established channels to effectuate such change.
(7) (a)  "Instructional time" means time during which a school is responsible
for a student and the student is required or expected to be actively engaged
in a learning activity.
(b)  "Instructional time" includes instructional activities in the classroom
or study hall during regularly scheduled hours, required activities outside
the classroom, and counseling, private conferences, or tutoring provided by
school employees or volunteers acting in their official capacities during or
outside of regular school hours.
(8)  "Involve human sexuality" means:
(a)  presenting information in violation of laws governing sex education,
including Sections 53A-13-101 and 53A-13-302;
(b)  advocating or engaging in sexual activity outside of legally recognized
marriage or forbidden by state law; or
(c)  presenting or discussing information relating to the use of contraceptive
devices or substances, regardless of whether the use is for purposes of
contraception or personal health.
(9)  "Limited open forum" means a forum created by a district for student
expression within the constraints of Subsection 53A-13-101.3(2)(b).
(10)  "Noncurricular club" is a student initiated group that may be authorized
and allowed school building use during noninstructional time in secondary
schools by a school and school governing board in accordance with the
provisions of this part.  A noncurricular club's meetings, ideas, and
activities are not sponsored or endorsed in any way by a school governing
board, the school, or by school or school district employees.
(11)  "Noninstructional time" means time set aside by a school before
instructional time begins or after instructional time ends, including
discretionary time.
(12)  "Religious club" means a noncurricular club designated in its
application as either being religiously based or based on expression or
conduct mandated by conscience.
(13)  "School" means a public school, including a charter school.
(14)  "School building use" means access to a school facility or premises,
including access to a limited open forum.
(15)  "School governing board" means a local school board or charter school
board.
