53A-11-1204.   Curricular clubs -- Authorization.
(1)  Faculty members or students proposing a curricular club shall submit
written application for authorization on a form approved by the school
governing board.
(2)  A school governing board may exempt a club whose membership is determined
by student body election or a club that is governed by an association that
regulates interscholastic activities from the authorization requirements under
this section.
(3)  An application for authorization of a curricular club shall include:
(a)  the recommended club name;
(b)  a statement of the club's purpose, goals, and activities;
(c)  a statement of the club's categorization, which shall be included in the
parental consent required under Section 53A-11-1210, indicating all of the
following that may apply:
(i)  athletic;
(ii)  business/economic;
(iii)  agriculture;
(iv)  art/music/performance;
(v)  science;
(vi)  gaming;
(vii)  religious;
(viii)  community service/social justice; and
(ix)  other;
(d)  the recommended meeting times, dates, and places;
(e)  a statement that the club will comply with the provisions of this part
and all other applicable laws, rules, or policies; and
(f)  a budget showing the amount and source of any funding provided or to be
provided to the club and its proposed use.
(4)  The application may be as brief as a single page so long as it contains
the items required under this section.
(5)  A school shall approve the name of a curricular club consistent with the
club's purposes and its school sponsorship.
(6) (a)  A school shall determine curriculum relatedness by strictly applying
this part's definition of curricular club to the club application.
(b)  If the school finds that the proposed club is a curricular club, the
school shall continue to review the application as an application for
authorization of a curricular club.
(c)  If the school finds that the proposed club is a noncurricular club, the
school may:
(i)  return the application to the faculty member or students proposing the
club for amendment; or
(ii)  review the application as an application for authorization of a
noncurricular club.
(7) (a)  Only curricular clubs may be authorized for elementary schools.
(b)  A school governing body may limit, or permit a secondary school to limit,
the authorization of clubs at the secondary school to only curricular clubs.
