58-55-103.   Construction Services Commission created -- Functions --
Appointment -- Qualifications and terms of members -- Vacancies -- Expenses --
Meetings.
(1) (a)  There is created within the division the Construction Services
Commission.
(b)  The commission shall:
(i)  with the concurrence of the director, make reasonable rules under Title
63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to administer and enforce
this chapter which are consistent with this chapter including:
(A)  licensing of various licensees;
(B)  examination requirements and administration of the examinations, to
include approving and establishing a passing score for applicant examinations;
(C)  standards of supervision for students or persons in training to become
qualified to obtain a license in the trade they represent; and
(D)  standards of conduct for various licensees;
(ii)  approve or disapprove fees adopted by the division under Section
63J-1-504;
(iii)  except where the boards conduct them, conduct all administrative
hearings not delegated to an administrative law judge relating to the
licensing of any applicant;
(iv)  except as otherwise provided in Sections 38-11-207 and 58-55-503, with
the concurrence of the director, impose sanctions against licensees and
certificate holders with the same authority as the division under Section
58-1-401;
(v)  advise the director on the administration and enforcement of any matters
affecting the division and the construction industry;
(vi)  advise the director on matters affecting the division budget;
(vii)  advise and assist trade associations in conducting construction trade
seminars and industry education and promotion; and
(viii)  perform other duties as provided by this chapter.
(2) (a)  Initially the commission shall be comprised of the five members of
the Contractors Licensing Board and two of the three chair persons from the
Plumbers Licensing Board, the Alarm System Security and Licensing Board, and
the Electricians Licensing Board.
(b)  The terms of office of the commission members who are serving on the
Contractors Licensing Board shall continue as they serve on the commission.
(c)  Beginning July 1, 2004, the commission shall be comprised of nine members
appointed by the executive director with the approval of the governor from the
following groups:
(i)  one member shall be a licensed general engineering contractor;
(ii)  one member shall be a licensed general building contractor;
(iii)  two members shall be licensed residential and small commercial
contractors;
(iv)  three members shall be the three chair persons from the Plumbers
Licensing Board, the Alarm System Security and Licensing Board, and the
Electricians Licensing Board; and
(v)  two members shall be from the general public, provided, however that the
certified public accountant on the Contractors Licensing Board will continue
to serve until the current term expires, after which both members under this
Subsection (2)(c)(v) shall be appointed from the general public.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current
commission members expire, the executive director with the approval of the
governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year
term ending June 30.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the executive
director with the approval of the governor shall, at the time of appointment
or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to stagger the terms of
commission members so that approximately 1/2 of the commission members are
appointed every two years.
(c)  A commission member may not serve more than two consecutive terms.
(4)  The commission shall elect annually one of its members as chair, for a
term of one year.
(5)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(6) (a)  Members may not receive compensation or benefits for their services,
but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the
members' official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance
under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(b)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(7) (a)  The commission shall meet at least monthly unless the director
determines otherwise.
(b)  The director may call additional meetings at the director's discretion,
upon the request of the chair, or upon the written request of four or more
commission members.
(8) (a)  Five members constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(b)  If a quorum is present when a vote is taken, the affirmative vote of
commission members present is the act of the commission.
(9)  The commission shall comply with the procedures and requirements of Title
13, Chapter 1, Department of Commerce, and Title 63G, Chapter 4,
Administrative Procedures Act, in all of its adjudicative proceedings.
