58-55-304.   Licensee names -- License number use -- License qualifier.
(1)  No license may be issued by the division in a name that is identical to
or so resembles the name of another licensee that the division determines that
it may result in confusion or mistake.
(2)  The contractor's license number shall be made a part of all permit
applications, contracts, agreements, or bids when a license is required.
(3)  The division may issue a license in the name of an individual or the name
of a business entity for which the individual acts as a qualifier, in
accordance with the following:
(a)  An individual shall:
(i)  submit an application in the individual's name;
(ii)  demonstrate the individual's own financial responsibility; and
(iii)  pass the required examination and meet all other requirements of this
chapter.
(b)  A business entity shall:
(i)  submit the application in the name of and on behalf of the business
entity;
(ii)  list the individual as the qualifier;
(iii)  demonstrate financial responsibility of the business entity if applying
for a contractor's license;
(iv)  provide evidence that the individual qualifier has passed the required
examination; and
(v)  meet all other requirements of this chapter.
(4)  A person acting as a qualifier for a business entity licensee must
demonstrate to the division that the individual is an owner, officer, or
manager within that business entity who exercises material authority in the
conduct of that business entity's contracting business by:
(a)  making substantive technical and administrative decisions relating to the
work performed for which a license is required under this chapter;
(b)  hiring, promoting, transferring, laying off, disciplining, directing, or
discharging employees of the licensee either by himself or through others; and
(c)  not being involved in any other employment or activity which conflicts
with the individual's duties and responsibilities to ensure the licensee's
performance of work regulated under this chapter does not jeopardize the
public health, safety, and welfare.
(5) (a)  Except as provided in Subsections (5)(b) and (c), it is the duty and
responsibility of the licensee and the qualifier to comply with the provisions
of this section.  Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may
be considered unprofessional conduct by the licensee, the qualifier, or both.
(b)  If a licensee business entity has maintained its license and has not
violated the requirements of this chapter or Sections 58-55-101 through
58-55-604 for a period of 10 consecutive years, the business entity may
maintain its license under this chapter by recording an active employee name
and registration/license number from the applicable trade on the renewal
application in order to comply with the individual qualifier requirements of
this section.  However, this Subsection (5)(b) shall not apply if more than
50% of the ownership of the business entity has been transferred at any time
during the ten-year period.
(c)  If a plumbing or electrical business entity has maintained its license
and has not violated the requirements of this chapter or Sections 58-55-101
through 58-55-604 for a period of five consecutive years, the business entity
may maintain its license under this chapter by recording an active employee
name and registration/license number from the applicable trade on the renewal
application in order to comply with the individual qualifier requirements of
this section.  However, this Subsection (5)(c) shall not apply if more than
50% of the ownership of the business entity has been transferred at any time
during the five-year period.
(6)  If an individual qualifying on behalf of a business entity issued a
license under this chapter ceases association with that entity as required in
Subsection (4), the licensee shall notify the division in writing within 10
days after cessation of association or employment.  If notice is given, the
license shall remain in force for 60 days after the date of cessation of
association or employment.  The licensee shall replace the original qualifier
with another individual qualifier within the 60-day period or the license
shall be automatically suspended.
(7)  Failure to notify the division of cessation of association or employment
of a qualifier as required in Subsection (6) may result in immediate
suspension of the license upon a finding of good cause.
