58-55-308.   Scope of practice -- Installation, repair, maintenance,
cleaning, or replacement of gas appliance or combustion system -- Rules.
(1) (a)  The commission, with the concurrence of the director, may adopt
reasonable rules pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act, to define and limit the scope of practice and operating
standards of the classifications and subclassifications licensed under this
chapter in a manner consistent with established practice in the relevant
industry.
(b)  The commission and the director may limit the field and scope of
operations of a licensee under this chapter in accordance with the rules and
the public health, safety, and welfare, based on the licensee's education,
training, experience, knowledge, and financial responsibility.
(2) (a)  The work and scope of practice covered by this Subsection (2) is the
installation, repair, maintenance, cleaning, or replacement of a residential
or commercial gas appliance or combustion system.
(b)  The provisions of this Subsection (2) apply to any:
(i)  licensee under this chapter whose license authorizes the licensee to
perform the work described in Subsection (2)(a); and
(ii)  person exempt from licensure under Subsection 58-55-305(1)(h).
(c)  Any person described in Subsection (2)(b) that performs work described in
Subsection (2)(a):
(i)  must first receive training and certification as specified in rules
adopted by the division; and
(ii)  shall ensure that any employee authorized under other provisions of this
chapter to perform work described in Subsection (2)(a) has first received
training and certification as specified in rules adopted by the division.
(d)  The division may exempt from the training requirements adopted under
Subsection (2)(c) a person that has adequate experience, as determined by the
division.
(3)  The division may exempt the following individuals from the certification
requirements adopted under Subsection (2)(c):
(a)  a person who has passed a test equivalent to the level of testing
required by the division for certification, or has completed an apprenticeship
program that teaches the installation of gas line appliances and is approved
by the Federal Bureau of Apprenticeship Training; and
(b)  a person working under the immediate one-to-one supervision of a
certified natural gas technician or a person exempt from certification.
(4)  This section does not prohibit a licensed specialty contractor from
accepting and entering into a contract involving the use of two or more crafts
or trades if the performance of the work in the crafts or trades, other than
that in which the contractor is licensed, is incidental and supplemental to
the work for which the contractor is licensed.
