53B-16-105.   Common course numbering -- Credit by examination -- Transferability of credits -- Policies.

(1)  The board shall:

(a)  facilitate articulation and the seamless transfer of courses within the state system of higher education;

(b)  provide for the efficient and effective progression and transfer of students within the state system of higher education;

(c)  avoid the unnecessary duplication of courses; and

(d)  allow students to proceed toward their educational objectives as rapidly as their circumstances permit.

(2)  The board shall develop, coordinate, and maintain a transfer and articulation system within the state system of higher education that:

(a)  maintains a course numbering system that assigns common numbers to specified courses of similar level with similar curricular content, rigor, and standards;

(b)  allows students to transfer courses among institutions of higher education to meet requirements for general education and lower division courses that transfer to baccalaureate majors;

(c)  improves program planning;

(d)  increases communications and coordination between institutions of higher education; and

(e)  facilitates student acceleration and the transfer of students and credits between institutions.

(3) (a)  The board shall identify general education courses in the humanities, social sciences, arts, physical sciences, and life sciences with uniform prefixes and common course numbers.

(b)  All institutions of higher education shall accept the courses described under Subsection (3)(a) toward filling specific area requirements for general education or lower division courses that transfer to baccalaureate majors.

(4) (a)  The board shall identify common prerequisite courses and course substitutions for degree programs across all institutions of higher education.

(b)  The commissioner shall appoint committees of faculty members from the institutions of higher education to recommend appropriate courses of similar content and numbering that will satisfy requirements for lower division courses that transfer to baccalaureate majors.

(c)  All institutions of higher education shall accept the courses approved under Subsection (4)(a) toward filling graduation requirements.

(5)  The board shall identify minimum scores and maximum credit for each:

(a)  College Level Examination Program (CLEP) general examination;

(b)  College Level Examination Program (CLEP) subject examination;

(c)  College Board advanced placement examination; and

(d)  other examination for credit.

(6) (a)  Institutions of higher education shall award credit if competencies have been demonstrated by passing a challenge examination.

(b)  Institutions of higher education shall award credit for the specific courses for which competency has been demonstrated by successfully passing a challenge examination described under Subsection (5)(a) unless the award of credit duplicates credit already awarded.

(7)  The board shall establish policies to administer the policies and requirements under Subsections (2) through (6).

(8)  The board shall include information demonstrating that institutions of higher education are complying with the provisions of this section and the policies established in accordance with Subsection (7) in the annual report of its activities to the governor and to the Legislature required under Section 53B-1-107.

