61-2-2.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Associate real estate broker" and "associate broker" means any person
employed or engaged as an independent contractor by or on behalf of a licensed
principal real estate broker to perform any act set out in Subsection (12) for
valuable consideration, who has qualified under this chapter as a principal
real estate broker.
(2)  "Branch office" means a principal broker's real estate brokerage office
other than the principal broker's main office.
(3)  "Commission" means the Real Estate Commission established under this
chapter.
(4)  "Concurrence" means the entities given a concurring role must jointly
agree for action to be taken.
(5)  "Condominium" or "condominium unit" is as defined in Section 57-8-3.
(6)  "Condominium homeowners' association" means all of the condominium unit
owners acting as a group in accordance with declarations and bylaws.
(7) (a)  "Condominium hotel" means one or more condominium units that are
operated as a hotel.
(b)  "Condominium hotel" does not mean a hotel consisting of condominium
units, all of which are owned by a single entity.
(8)  "Director" means the director of the Division of Real Estate.
(9)  "Division" means the Division of Real Estate.
(10)  "Executive director" means the director of the Department of Commerce.
(11)  "Main office" means the address which a principal broker designates with
the division as the principal broker's primary brokerage office.
(12)  "Principal real estate broker" and "principal broker" means any person:
(a) (i)  who sells or lists for sale, buys, exchanges, or auctions real
estate, options on real estate, or improvements on real estate with the
expectation of receiving valuable consideration; or
(ii)  who advertises, offers, attempts, or otherwise holds himself out to be
engaged in the business described in Subsection (12)(a)(i);
(b)  employed by or on behalf of the owner of real estate or by a prospective
purchaser of real estate who performs any of the acts described in Subsection
(12)(a), whether the person's compensation is at a stated salary, a commission
basis, upon a salary and commission basis, or otherwise;
(c)  who, with the expectation of receiving valuable consideration, manages
property owned by another person or who advertises or otherwise holds himself
out to be engaged in property management;
(d)  who, with the expectation of receiving valuable consideration, assists or
directs in the procurement of prospects for or the negotiation of the
transactions listed in Subsections (12)(a) and (c); and
(e)  except for mortgage lenders, title insurance agents, and their employees,
who assists or directs in the closing of any real estate transaction with the
expectation of receiving valuable consideration.
(13) (a)  "Property management" means engaging in, with the expectation of
receiving valuable consideration, the management of property owned by another
person or advertising or otherwise claiming to be engaged in property
management by:
(i)  advertising for, arranging, negotiating, offering, or otherwise
attempting or participating in a transaction calculated to secure the rental
or leasing of real estate;
(ii)  collecting, agreeing, offering, or otherwise attempting to collect rent
for the real estate and accounting for and disbursing the money collected; or
(iii)  authorizing expenditures for repairs to the real estate.
(b)  "Property management" does not include:
(i)  hotel or motel management;
(ii)  rental of tourist accommodations, including hotels, motels, tourist
homes, condominiums, condominium hotels, mobile home park accommodations,
campgrounds, or similar public accommodations for any period of less than 30
consecutive days, and the management activities associated with these rentals;
or
(iii)  the leasing or management of surface or subsurface minerals or oil and
gas interests, if the leasing or management is separate from a sale or lease
of the surface estate.
(14)  "Real estate" includes leaseholds and business opportunities involving
real property.
(15)  "Real estate sales agent" and "sales agent" mean any person affiliated
with a licensed principal real estate broker, either as an independent
contractor or an employee as provided in Section 61-2-25, to perform for
valuable consideration any act set out in Subsection (12).
(16) (a)  "Regular salaried employee" means an individual who performs a
service for wages or other remuneration, whose employer withholds federal
employment taxes under a contract of hire, written or oral, express or
implied.
(b)  "Regular salaried employee" does not include a person who performs
services on a project-by-project basis or on a commission basis.
(17)  "Reinstatement" means restoring a license that has expired or has been
suspended.
(18)  "Reissuance" means the process by which a licensee may obtain a license
following revocation of the license.
(19)  "Renewal" means extending a license for an additional licensing period
on or before the date the license expires.
(20) (a)  "Undivided fractionalized long-term estate" means an ownership
interest in real property by two or more persons that is a:
(i)  tenancy in common; or
(ii)  any other legal form of undivided estate in real property including:
(A)  a fee estate;
(B)  a life estate; or
(C)  other long-term estate.
(b)  "Undivided fractionalized long-term estate" does not include a joint
tenancy.
