61-2-9.   Examination and license fees -- Criminal background check --
Renewal of licenses -- Education requirements -- Activation of inactive
licenses -- Recertification -- Licenses of firm, partnership, or association
-- Miscellaneous fees.
(1) (a)  Upon filing an application for a principal broker, associate broker,
or sales agent license examination, the applicant shall pay a nonrefundable
fee as determined by the commission with the concurrence of the division under
Section 63J-1-504 for admission to the examination.
(b)  A principal broker, associate broker, or sales agent applicant shall pay
a nonrefundable fee as determined by the commission with the concurrence of
the division under Section 63J-1-504 for issuance of an initial license or
license renewal.
(c)  A license issued under this Subsection (1) shall be issued for a period
of not less than two years as determined by the division with the concurrence
of the commission.
(d) (i)  Any of the following applicants shall comply with this Subsection
(1)(d):
(A)  a new sales agent applicant; or
(B) a broker applicant.
(ii)  An applicant described in this Subsection (1)(d) shall:
(A)  submit fingerprint cards in a form acceptable to the division at the time
the license application is filed; and
(B)  consent to a criminal background check by the Utah Bureau of Criminal
Identification and the Federal Bureau of Investigation regarding the
application.
(iii)  The division shall request the Department of Public Safety to complete
a Federal Bureau of Investigation criminal background check for each applicant
described in this Subsection (1)(d) through the national criminal history
system or any successor system.
(iv)  The applicant shall pay the cost of the criminal background check and
the fingerprinting.
(v)  Monies paid to the division by an applicant for the cost of the criminal
background check are nonlapsing.
(e) (i)  A license issued under Subsection (1)(d) is conditional, pending
completion of the criminal background check.  If the criminal background check
discloses the applicant fails to accurately disclose a criminal history, the
license shall be immediately and automatically revoked.
(ii)  A person whose conditional license is revoked under Subsection (1)(e)(i)
may have a post-revocation hearing to challenge the revocation.  The hearing
shall be conducted in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative
Procedures Act.
(iii)  The division director shall designate one of the following to act as
the presiding officer in a postrevocation hearing described in this Subsection
(1)(e):
(A)  the division; or
(B)  the division with the concurrence of the commission.
(iv)  The decision on whether relief from the revocation of a license under
this Subsection (1)(e) will be granted shall be made by the presiding officer.
(v)  Relief from a revocation under this Subsection (1)(e) may be granted only
if:
(A)  the criminal history upon which the division based the revocation:
(I)  did not occur; or
(II)  is the criminal history of another person;
(B) (I)  the revocation is based on a failure to accurately disclose a
criminal history; and
(II)  the applicant has a reasonable good faith belief at the time of
application that there was no criminal history to be disclosed; or
(C)  the division fails to follow the prescribed procedure for the revocation.
(vi)  If a license is revoked or a revocation under this Subsection (1)(e) is
upheld after a post-revocation hearing, the person may not apply for a new
license until at least 12 months after the day on which the license is
revoked.
(2) (a) (i)  A license expires if it is not renewed on or before its
expiration date.
(ii)  As a condition of renewal, an active licensee shall demonstrate
competence by completing 18 hours of continuing education within a two-year
renewal period subject to rules made by the commission, with the concurrence
of the division.
(iii)  In making a rule described in Subsection (2)(c)(ii), the division and
commission shall consider:
(A)  evaluating continuing education on the basis of competency, rather than
course time;
(B)  allowing completion of courses in a significant variety of topic areas
that the division and commission determine are valuable in assisting an
individual licensed under this chapter to increase the individual's
competency; and
(C)  allowing completion of courses that will increase a licensee's
professional competency in the area of practice of the licensee.
(iv)  The division with the concurrence of the commission shall certify the
continuing education required under this Subsection (2)(a) which may include:
(A)  state conventions;
(B)  home study courses;
(C)  video courses; and
(D)  closed circuit television courses.
(v)  The commission with concurrence of the division may exempt a licensee
from all or a part of the continuing education requirement of this Subsection
(2)(a) for a reasonable period of time:
(A)  upon a finding of reasonable cause, including:
(I)  military service; or
(II)  if an individual is elected or appointed to government service, the
individual's government service during which the individual spends a
substantial time addressing real estate issues; and
(B)  under conditions established by rule made in accordance with Title 63G,
Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(b)  For a period of 30 days after the expiration date of a license, the
license may be reinstated upon:
(i)  payment of a renewal fee and a late fee determined by the commission with
the concurrence of the division under Section 63J-1-504; and
(ii)  providing proof acceptable to the division and the commission of the
licensee having:
(A)  completed the hours of education required by Subsection (2)(a); or
(B)  demonstrated competence as required under Subsection (2)(a).
(c)  After the 30-day period described in Subsection (2)(b), and until six
months after the expiration date, the license may be reinstated by:
(i)  paying a renewal fee and a late fee determined by the commission with the
concurrence of the division under Section 63J-1-504;
(ii)  providing to the division proof of satisfactory completion of 12 hours
of continuing education:
(A)  in addition to the requirements for a timely renewal; and
(B)  on a subject determined by the commission by rule made in accordance with
Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act; and
(iii)  providing proof acceptable to the division and the commission of the
licensee having:
(A)  completed the hours of education required under Subsection (2)(a); or
(B)  demonstrated competence as required under Subsection (2)(a).
(d)  After the six-month period described in Subsection (2)(c), and until one
year after the expiration date, the license may be reinstated by:
(i)  paying a renewal fee and a late fee determined by the commission with the
concurrence of the division under Section 63J-1-504;
(ii)  providing to the division proof of satisfactory completion of 24 hours
of continuing education:
(A)  in addition to the requirements for a timely renewal; and
(B)  on a subject determined by the commission by rule made in accordance with
Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act; and
(iii)  providing proof acceptable to the division and the commission of the
licensee having:
(A)  completed the hours of education required by Subsection (2)(a); or
(B)  demonstrated competence as required under Subsection (2)(a).
(e)  The division shall relicense a person who does not renew that person's
license within one year as prescribed for an original application.
(f)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a), the division may extend the term of a
license that would expire under Subsection (2)(a) except for the extension if:
(i)  the person complies with the requirements of this section to renew the
license; and
(ii)  at the time of the extension, there is pending under this chapter:
(A)  the application for renewal of the license; or
(B)  a disciplinary action.
(3) (a)  As a condition for the activation of an inactive license that was in
an inactive status at the time of the licensee's most recent renewal, the
licensee shall supply the division with proof of:
(i)  successful completion of the respective sales agent or broker licensing
examination within six months prior to applying to activate the license; or
(ii)  the successful completion of the hours of continuing education that the
licensee would have been required to complete under Subsection (2)(a) if the
license had been on active status at the time of the licensee's most recent
renewal.
(b)  The commission may, in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act, establish by rule:
(i)  the nature or type of continuing education required for reactivation of a
license; and
(ii)  how long before reactivation the continuing education must be completed.
(4) (a)  A principal broker license may be granted to a corporation,
partnership, or association if the corporation, partnership, or association
has affiliated with it an individual who:
(i)  has qualified as a principal broker under the terms of this chapter; and
(ii)  serves in the capacity of a principal broker.
(b)  Application for the license described in Subsection (4)(a) shall be made
in accordance with the rules adopted by the division with the concurrence of
the commission.
(5)  The division may charge and collect reasonable fees determined by the
commission with the concurrence of the division under Section 63J-1-504 to
cover the costs for:
(a)  issuance of a new or duplicate license;
(b)  a license history or certification;
(c)  a certified copy of an official document, order, or other paper or
transcript;
(d)  certifying a real estate school, course, or instructor, the fees for
which shall, notwithstanding Section 13-1-2, be deposited in the Real Estate
Education, Research, and Recovery Fund; and
(e)  other duties required by this chapter.
(6)  If a licensee submits or causes to be submitted a check, draft, or other
negotiable instrument to the division for payment of a fee, and the check,
draft, or other negotiable instrument is dishonored, the transaction for which
the payment is submitted is void and will be reversed by the division if
payment of the applicable fee is not received in full.
(7) (a)  A fee under this chapter and the additional license fee for the Real
Estate Education, Research, and Recovery Fund under Section 61-2a-4 are in
lieu of all other license fees or assessments that might otherwise be imposed
or charged by the state or any of its political subdivisions, upon, or as a
condition of, the privilege of conducting the business regulated by this
chapter, except that a political subdivision within the state may charge a
business license fee on a principal broker if the principal broker maintains a
place of business within the jurisdiction of the political subdivision.
(b)  Unless otherwise exempt, a licensee under this chapter is subject to all
taxes imposed under Title 59, Revenue and Taxation.
