61-2-10.   Restriction on commissions -- Affiliation with more than one
broker -- Specialized licenses -- Designation of agents or brokers.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), an associate broker or sales
agent may not accept valuable consideration for the performance of an act
specified in this chapter from a person except the principal broker with whom
the associate broker or sales agent is affiliated and licensed.
(b)  An associate broker or sales agent may receive valuable consideration for
the performance of an act specified in this chapter from a person other than
the principal broker with whom the associate broker or sales agent is
affiliated if:
(i)  the valuable consideration is paid with a payment instrument prepared by
a title insurance agent;
(ii)  the title insurance agent provides the payment instrument to the
principal broker;
(iii)  the title insurance agent complies with the written instructions of the
principal broker:
(A)  in preparing the payment instrument; and
(B)  delivering the payment instrument to the principal broker; and
(iv)  the principal broker directly delivers the payment instrument to the
associate broker or sales agent.
(c)  The commission, with the concurrence of the division, shall make rules in
accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act:
(i)  defining what constitutes a "payment instrument" for purposes of this
Subsection (1); or
(ii)  the form and contents of the written instructions required by Subsection
(1)(b), including providing that the contents of the written instructions
indicate that the payment instrument process is an assignment to the associate
broker or sales agent by the principal broker of a portion of the
consideration the title insurance agent is obligated to pay the principal
broker.
(2)  An inactive associate broker or sales agent may not conduct a real estate
transaction until the inactive associate broker or sales agent becomes
affiliated with a licensed principal broker and submits the required
documentation to the division.  An inactive principal broker may not conduct a
real estate transaction until the principal broker’s license is activated
with the division.
(3)  A sales agent or associate broker may not affiliate with more than one
principal broker at the same time.
(4) (a)  Except as provided by rule, a principal broker may not be responsible
for more than one real estate brokerage at the same time.
(b) (i)  In addition to issuing principal broker, associate broker, and sales
agent licenses authorizing the performance of all of the acts set forth in
Subsection 61-2-2(12), the division may issue specialized sales licenses and
specialized property management licenses with the scope of practice limited to
the specialty.
(ii)  An individual may hold a specialized license in addition to a license to
act as a principal broker, an associate broker, or a sales agent.
(iii)  The commission may adopt rules pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Procedures Act, for the administration of this Subsection (4),
including:
(A)  prelicensing and postlicensing education requirements;
(B)  examination requirements;
(C)  affiliation with real estate brokerages or property management companies;
and
(D)  other licensing procedures.
(c)  An individual may not be a principal broker of a brokerage and a sales
agent or associate broker for a different brokerage at the same time.
(5)  An owner, purchaser, lessor, or lessee who engages the services of a
principal broker may designate which sales agents or associate brokers
affiliated with that principal broker will also represent that owner,
purchaser, lessor, or lessee in the purchase, sale, lease, or exchange of real
estate, or in exercising an option relating to real estate.
