61-2-12.   Disciplinary action -- Judicial review.
(1) (a)  On the basis of a violation of this chapter, the commission with the
concurrence of the director, may issue an order:
(i)  imposing an educational requirement;
(ii)  imposing a civil penalty not to exceed the greater of:
(A)  $2,500 for each violation; or
(B)  the amount of any gain or economic benefit derived from each violation;
(iii)  taking any of the following actions related to a license or
certificate:
(A)  revoking;
(B)  suspending;
(C)  placing on probation;
(D)  denying the renewal, reinstatement, or application for an original
license or certificate; or
(E)  in the case of denial or revocation of a license or certificate, setting
a waiting period for an applicant to apply for a license or certificate under
this title;
(iv)  issuing a cease and desist order;
(v)  modifying an action described in Subsections (1)(a)(i) through (iv) if
the commission finds that the person complies with court ordered restitution;
or
(vi)  doing any combination of Subsections (1)(a)(i) through (v).
(b)  If a licensee is an active sales agent or active associate broker, the
division shall inform the principal broker with whom the licensee is
affiliated of the charge and of the time and place of any hearing.
(2) (a)  An applicant, certificate holder, licensee, or person aggrieved,
including the complainant, may obtain agency review by the executive director
and judicial review of any adverse ruling, order, or decision of the division.
(b)  If an applicant, certificate holder, or licensee prevails in the appeal
and the court finds that the state action was undertaken without substantial
justification, the court may award reasonable litigation expenses to the
applicant, certificate holder, or licensee as provided under Title 78B,
Chapter 8, Part 5, Small Business Equal Access to Justice Act.
(c) (i)  An order, ruling, or decision of the division shall take effect and
become operative 30 days after the service of the order, ruling, or decision
unless otherwise provided in the order.
(ii)  If an appeal is taken by a licensee, the division may stay enforcement
of an order, ruling, or decision in accordance with Section 63G-4-405.
(iii)  An appeal is governed by the Utah Rules of Appellate Procedure.
(3)  The commission and the director shall comply with the procedures and
requirements of Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, in an
adjudicative proceeding.
