51-9-402.   Division of collected monies retained by state treasurer and
local governmental collecting entity -- Purpose of surcharge -- Allocation of
collections -- Financial information.
(1)  The amount of the surcharge imposed under this part by courts of record
shall be collected before any fine and deposited with the state treasurer.
(2)  The amount of the surcharge and the amount of criminal fines, penalties,
and forfeitures imposed under this part by courts not of record shall be
collected concurrently.
(a)  As monies are collected on criminal fines, penalties, and forfeitures
subject to the 85% surcharge, the monies shall be divided pro rata so that the
local governmental collecting entity retains 54% of the collected monies and
the state retains 46% of the collected monies.
(b)  As monies are collected on criminal fines, penalties, and forfeitures
subject to the 35% surcharge, the monies shall be divided pro rata so that the
local governmental collecting entity retains 74% of the collected monies and
the state retains 26% of the collected monies.
(c)  The court shall deposit with the state treasurer the surcharge portion of
all monies as they are collected.
(3)  Courts of record, courts not of record, and administrative traffic
proceedings shall collect financial information to determine:
(a)  the total number of cases in which:
(i)  a final judgment has been rendered;
(ii)  surcharges and fines are paid by partial or installment payment; and
(iii)  the judgment is fulfilled by an alternative method upon the court's
order;
(b)  the total dollar amounts of surcharges owed to the state and fines owed
to the state and county or municipality, including:
(i)  waived surcharges;
(ii)  uncollected surcharges; and
(iii)  collected surcharges.
(4)  The courts of record, courts not of record, and administrative traffic
proceedings shall report all collected financial information monthly to the
Administrative Office of the Courts.  The collected information shall be
categorized by cases subject to the 85% and 35% surcharge.
(5)  The purpose of the surcharge is to finance the trust funds and support
accounts as provided in this part.
(6) (a)  From the surcharge, the Division of Finance shall allocate in the
manner and for the purposes described in Sections 51-9-403 through 51-9-411.
(b)  Allocations shall be made on a fiscal year basis.
(7)  The provisions of this section and Section 51-9-401 may not impact the
distribution and allocation of fines and forfeitures imposed in accordance
with Sections 23-14-13, 78A-5-110, and 78A-7-120.
