51-9-412.   Law Enforcement Services Account -- Funding -- Uses.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Account" means the Law Enforcement Services Account.

(b)  "Commission" means the Commission on Criminal and Juvenile Justice created in Section 63M-7-201.

(c)  "Halfway house" means a facility that houses parolees upon release from prison or houses probationers who have violated the terms of their probation.

(d)  "Law enforcement agency" means a local law enforcement agency.

(e)  "Parole violator center" means a facility that houses parolees who have violated the conditions of their parole agreement.

(2)  There is created a restricted account within the General Fund known as the "Law Enforcement Services Account."

(3) (a)  The Division of Finance shall allocate funds from the collected surcharge in accordance with Subsection 51-9-401(1)(c) to the account, but not to exceed the amount appropriated by the Legislature.

(b)  Money in the account shall be appropriated to the commission to administer and distribute to law enforcement agencies providing services directly to areas with halfway houses or parole violator centers, or both.

(4)  The commission shall allocate funds from the account to local law enforcement agencies on a pro-rata basis determined by the number of beds in each agency's jurisdiction for increased enforcement in areas with halfway houses or parole violator centers, or both.

(5)  A law enforcement agency may use funds received under this section only for the purposes stated in this section.

(6)  For each fiscal year, any law enforcement agency that receives funds from the commission under this section shall prepare, and file with the commission and the state auditor, a report in a form specified by the commission.  The report shall include the following:

(a)  the agency's name;

(b)  the amount received;

(c)  how the funds were used, including the impact on crime reduction efforts in areas with halfway houses or parole violator centers, or both; and

(d)  a statement signed by both the agency's or political subdivision's executive officer or designee and by the agency's legal counsel that all funds were used for law enforcement operations related to reducing criminal activity in areas with halfway houses or parole violator centers, or both.

(7)  The commission shall report in writing to the legislative Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Interim Committee annually regarding the funds allocated under this section, including the amounts and uses.



Amended by Chapter 439, 2013 General Session

