78B-8-302.   Process servers.

(1)  Complaints, summonses, and subpoenas may be served by any person 18 years of age or older at the time of service, and who is not a party to the action or a party's attorney.

(2)  The following persons may serve all process issued by the courts of this state:

(a)  a peace officer employed by any political subdivision of the state acting within the scope and jurisdiction of the peace officer's employment;

(b)  a sheriff or appointed deputy sheriff employed by any county of the state;

(c)  a constable, or the constable's deputy, serving in compliance with applicable law; and

(d)  an investigator employed by the state and authorized by law to serve civil process.

(3)  Private investigators licensed in accordance with Title 53, Chapter 9, Private Investigator Regulation Act, may serve all forms of process in a civil proceeding, including bench warrants, however private investigators may not arrest anyone pursuant to a bench warrant.

(a)  While serving process, a private investigator shall:

(i)  have on the investigator's person a visible form of credentials and identification identifying:

(A)  the person by name;

(B)  the person as a licensed private investigator; and

(C)  the name and address of the agency employing the investigator or, if the investigator is self-employed, the address of the investigator's place of business;

(ii)  verbally communicate to the person being served that the investigator is acting as a process server; and

(iii)  print on the first page of each document served:

(A)  the investigator's name and identification as a private investigator; and

(B)  the address and phone number for the investigator's place of business.

(b)  A private investigator may not use physical force or cause a breach of the peace while serving or attempting to serve process.

(c)  A complaint regarding a private investigator serving process may be made to and investigated by the sheriff of the county where the incident being complained of occurred.  If the sheriff determines the complaint is credible, the sheriff may restrict or prohibit a licensed private investigator from serving any or all types of process within the county.

(4)  Other persons may serve process as prescribed by Subsection (1).

(5)  A person serving process shall legibly document the date and time of service and the person's name and address on the return of service.



Amended by Chapter 413, 2012 General Session

