78B-8-402.   Petition -- Disease testing -- Notice -- Payment for testing.

(1)  An emergency medical services provider, or first aid volunteer who is significantly exposed during the course of performing the emergency medical services provider's duties or during the course of performing emergency assistance or first aid may:

(a)  request that the person to whom he was significantly exposed voluntarily submit to testing; or

(b)  petition the district court for an order requiring that the person to whom he was significantly exposed submit to testing to determine the presence of a disease, as defined in Section 78B-8-401, and that the results of that test be disclosed to the petitioner by the Department of Health.

(2) (a)  The petitioner shall file a petition with the district court seeking an order to submit to testing and to disclose the results in accordance with the provisions of this section.

(b)  The petition shall be sealed upon filing and made accessible only to the petitioner, the subject of the petition, and their attorneys, upon court order.

(3) (a)  The petition described in Subsection (2) shall be accompanied by an affidavit in which the emergency medical services provider or first aid volunteer certifies that he has been significantly exposed to the individual who is the subject of the petition and describes that exposure.

(b)  The petitioner shall submit to testing to determine the presence of a disease, when the petition is filed or within three days after the petition is filed.

(4)  The petitioner shall cause the petition required under this section to be served on the person who the petitioner is requesting to be tested in a manner that will best preserve the confidentiality of that person.

(5) (a)  The court shall set a time for a hearing on the matter within 10 days after the petition is filed and shall give the petitioner and the individual who is the subject of the petition notice of the hearing at least 72 hours prior to the hearing.

(b)  The individual who is the subject of the petition shall also be notified that he may have an attorney present at the hearing, and that his attorney may examine and cross-examine witnesses.

(c)  The hearing shall be conducted in camera.

(6)  The district court may enter an order requiring that an individual submit to testing for a disease if the court finds probable cause to believe:

(a)  the petitioner was significantly exposed; and

(b)  the exposure occurred during the course of the emergency medical services provider's duties, or the provision of emergency assistance or first aid by a first aid volunteer.

(7)  The court may order that additional, follow-up testing be conducted, and that the individual submit to that testing, as it determines to be necessary and appropriate.

(8)  The court is not required to order an individual to submit to a test under this section if it finds that there is a substantial reason, relating to the life or health of the individual, not to enter the order.

(9) (a)  Upon order of the district court that a person submit to testing for a disease, that person shall report to the designated local health department to have his blood drawn within 10 days from the issuance of the order, and thereafter as designated by the court, or be held in contempt of court.

(b)  The court shall send the order to the Department of Health and to the local health department ordered to draw the blood.

(c)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 26-6-27, the Department of Health and a local health department may disclose the test results pursuant to a court order as provided in this section.

(d)  Under this section, anonymous testing as provided under Section 26-6-3.5 shall not satisfy the requirements of the court order.

(10)  The local health department or the Department of Health shall inform the subject of the petition and the petitioner of the results of the test and advise both parties that the test results are confidential.  That information shall be maintained as confidential by all parties to the action.

(11)  The court, its personnel, the process server, the Department of Health, local health department, and petitioner shall maintain confidentiality of the name and any other identifying information regarding the individual tested and the results of the test as they relate to that individual, except as specifically authorized by this chapter.

(12) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (12)(b), the petitioner shall remit payment for the drawing of the blood specimen and the analysis of the specimen for the mandatory disease testing to the entity that draws the blood.

(b)  If the petitioner is an emergency medical services provider, the agency which employs the emergency medical services provider shall remit payment for the drawing of the blood specimen and the analysis of the specimen for the mandatory disease testing to the entity that draws the blood.

(13)  The entity that draws the blood shall cause the blood and the payment for the analysis of the specimen to be delivered to the Department of Health for analysis.

(14)  If the individual is incarcerated, the incarcerating authority shall either draw the blood specimen or shall pay the expenses of having the individual's blood drawn.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 3, 2008 General Session

