49-12-701.    Early retirement incentive -- Eligibility -- Calculation of
benefit -- Payment of costs -- Savings to be appropriated by Legislature --
Restrictions on reemployment.
(1)  Any member of this system may retire and receive the allowance allowed
under Subsection (2) if the member meets the following requirements as of the
member's retirement date:
(a)  the member is eligible for retirement under Section 49-12-401, or has 25
years of service credit;
(b)  the member elects to forfeit any stipend for retirement offered by the
participating employer; and
(c)  the member elects to retire from this system by applying for retirement
by the date established under Subsection (3)(a) or (3)(b).
(2) (a)  A member who retires under Subsection (1) shall receive 2% of that
member's final average salary for all years of service credit.
(b)  An actuarial reduction may not be applied to the allowance granted under
this section.
(3)  In order to receive the allowance allowed by this section, a member shall
submit an application to the office as follows:
(a) (i)  For state and school employees under Level A, the application shall
be filed by May 31, 1987. The member's retirement date shall then be set by
the member on the 1st or 16th day of July, August, or September, 1987.
(ii)  If a Level A member elects to retire, the executive director or
participating employer may request the member to delay the retirement date
until a later date, but no later than June 30, 1988.
(iii)  If the member agrees to delay the retirement date, the retirement date
shall be delayed, but service credit may not be accrued after the member's
original retirement date elected by the member, and compensation earned after
the member's original retirement date may not be used in the calculation of
the final average salary for determining the retirement allowance.
(b) (i)  For political subdivision employees under Level B, the application
shall be filed by September 30, 1987.
(ii)  The retirement date shall then be set by the member on the 1st or 16th
day of July, August, September, October, November, or December, 1987.
(4) (a)  The cost of providing the allowance under this section shall be
funded in fiscal year 1987-88 by a supplemental appropriation in the 1988
General Session based on the retirement contribution rate increase established
by the consulting actuary and approved by the board.
(b)  The cost of providing the allowance under this section shall be funded
beginning July 1, 1988, by means of an increase in the retirement contribution
rate established by the consulting actuary and approved by the board.
(c)  The rate increase under Subsections (4)(a) and (b) shall be funded:
(i)  for state employees, by an appropriation from the account established by
the Division of Finance under Subsection (4)(d), which is funded by savings
derived from this early retirement incentive and a work force reduction;
(ii)  for school employees, by direct contributions from the employing unit,
which may not be funded through an increase in the retirement contribution
amount established in Title 53A, Chapter 17a, Minimum School Program Act; and
(iii)  for political subdivisions under Level B, by direct contributions by
the participating employer.
(d) (i)  Each year, any excess savings derived from this early retirement
incentive which are above the costs of funding the increase and the costs of
paying insurance, sick leave, compensatory leave, and vacation leave under
Subsections (4)(c)(i) and (c)(ii) shall be reported to the Legislature and
shall be appropriated as provided by law.
(ii)  In the case of Subsection (4)(c)(i), the Division of Finance shall
establish an account into which all savings derived from this early retirement
incentive shall be deposited as the savings are realized.
(iii)  In the case of Subsection (4)(c)(ii), the State Office of Education
shall certify the amount of savings derived from this early retirement
incentive.
(iv)  The State Office of Education and the participating employer may not
spend the savings until appropriated by the Legislature as provided by law.
(5)  A member who retires under this section is subject to Section 49-11-504.
(6)  The board may adopt rules to administer this section.
(7)  The Legislative Auditor General shall perform an audit to ensure
compliance with this section.
