67-1a-6.7.   Certification of local entity name change.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Approving authority" means the person or body authorized under statute
to approve the local entity's name change.
(b)  "Center" has the same meaning as defined in Section 67-1a-6.5.
(c)  "Certificate of name change" means a certificate issued by the lieutenant
governor certifying a local entity's change of name.
(d)  "Local entity" has the same meaning as defined in Section 67-1a-6.5.
(e)  "Notice of an impending name change" means a notice, as described in
Subsection (3), that provides notice of a local entity's impending name
change.
(2)  Within 10 days after receiving a notice of an impending name change, the
lieutenant governor shall:
(a)  issue a certificate of name change;
(b)  send the certificate of name change to the approving authority of the
local entity whose name is being changed; and
(c)  send a copy of the certificate of name change to:
(i)  the State Tax Commission;
(ii)  the state auditor;
(iii)  the center; and
(iv)  the county assessor, county surveyor, county auditor, and county
attorney of each county in which any part of the local entity is located.
(3)  Each notice of an impending name change shall:
(a)  be directed to the lieutenant governor;
(b)  contain the current name of the local entity;
(c)  state the name to which the local entity intends to change;
(d)  identify each county in which any part of the local entity is located;
and
(e)  contain a statement, signed and verified by the approving authority,
certifying that all requirements applicable to the name change have been met.
(4) (a)  The lieutenant governor shall:
(i)  keep, index, maintain, and make available to the public each notice of an
impending name change, certificate of a name change, and other document that
the lieutenant governor receives or generates under this section;
(ii)  make a copy of each document listed in Subsection (4)(a)(i) available on
the Internet for 12 months after the lieutenant governor receives or generates
the document;
(iii)  furnish a paper copy of any of the documents listed in Subsection
(4)(a)(i) to any person who requests a paper copy; and
(iv)  furnish a certified copy of any of the documents listed in Subsection
(4)(a)(i) to any person who requests a certified copy.
(b)  The lieutenant governor may charge a reasonable fee for a paper copy or
certified copy of a document that the lieutenant governor provides under this
Subsection (4).
