67-1a-10.   Commission on Civic and Character Education -- Membership -- Chair -- Expenses.

(1)  There is created within the lieutenant governor's office the Commission on Civic and Character Education.

(2)  The commission consists of seven members appointed as follows:

(a)  the lieutenant governor, as chief election officer of the state, or a designee;

(b)  one member of the House of Representatives, appointed by the speaker of the House;

(c)  one member of the Senate, appointed by the president of the Senate;

(d)  one member of the State Board of Education, appointed by the chair;

(e)  one member of the State Board of Regents, appointed by the chair;

(f)  one member of the public with expertise in the area of civic and character education appointed by the other members of the commission to serve for a two year term; and

(g)  one justice of the Supreme Court or one appellate court judge appointed by the Supreme Court.

(3) (a)  The lieutenant governor shall serve as chairperson or if the lieutenant governor is unable to serve, the commission shall annually elect a chairperson from its membership.

(b)  The commission shall hold meetings as needed to carry out its duties.  A meeting may be held on the call of the chair or a majority of the commission members.

(c)  Three commission members are necessary to constitute a quorum at any meeting and, if a quorum exists, the action of a majority of members present shall be the action of the commission.

(4) (a)  An appointed commission member shall be appointed for a two-year term or until their successors are appointed.

(b)  When a vacancy occurs in the appointed membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(6)  The duties of the lieutenant governor's office shall include leadership of the commission.

(7)  The funding of the commission shall be a separate line item to the lieutenant governor's office in the annual appropriations act.

