13-43-202.   Land Use and Eminent Domain Advisory Board -- Appointment -- Compensation -- Duties.

(1)  There is created the Land Use and Eminent Domain Advisory Board, within the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman, consisting of the following seven members:

(a)  one individual representing special service districts, nominated by the Utah Association of Special Districts;

(b)  one individual representing municipal government, nominated by the Utah League of Cities and Towns;

(c)  one individual representing county government, nominated by the Utah Association of Counties;

(d)  one individual representing the residential construction industry, nominated by the Utah Home Builders Association;

(e)  one individual representing the real estate industry, nominated by the Utah Association of Realtors;

(f)  one individual representing the land development community, jointly nominated by the Utah Association of Realtors and the Home Builders Association of Utah; and

(g)  one individual who:

(i)  is a citizen with experience in land use issues;

(ii)  does not hold public office; and

(iii)  is not currently employed, nor has been employed in the previous 12 months, by any of the entities or industries listed in Subsections (1)(a) through (f).

(2)  After receiving nominations, the governor shall appoint members to the board.

(3)  The term of office of each member is four years, except that the governor shall appoint three of the members of the board to an initial two-year term.

(4)  Each mid-term vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as an appointment under Subsections (1) and (2).

(5) (a)  Board members shall elect a chair from their number and establish rules for the organization and operation of the board.

(b)  Five members of the board constitute a quorum for the conduct of the board's business.

(c)  The affirmative vote of five members is required to constitute the decision of the board on any matter.

(6)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(7)  A member need not give a bond for the performance of official duties.

(8)  The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman shall provide staff to the board.

(9)  The board shall:

(a)  receive reports from the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman that are requested by the board;

(b)  establish rules of conduct and performance for the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman;

(c)  receive donations or contributions from any source for the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman's benefit;

(d)  subject to any restriction placed on a donation or contribution received under Subsection (9)(c), authorize the expenditure of donations or contributions for the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman's benefit;

(e)  receive budget recommendations from the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman; and

(f)  revise budget recommendations received under Subsection (9)(e).

(10)  The board shall maintain a resource list of qualified arbitrators and mediators who may be appointed under Section 13-43-204 and qualified persons who may be appointed to render advisory opinions under Section 13-43-205.

