13-43-204.   Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman -- Arbitration or
mediation of takings or eminent domain disputes.
(1)  If requested by the private property owner and otherwise appropriate, the
Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman shall mediate, or conduct or arrange
arbitration for, disputes between private property owners and government
entities that involve:
(a)  takings or eminent domain issues;
(b)  actions for eminent domain under Title 78B, Chapter 6, Part 5, Eminent
Domain; or
(c)  disputes about relocation assistance under Title 57, Chapter 12, Utah
Relocation Assistance Act.
(2)  If arbitration or mediation is requested by a private property owner
under this section, Section 57-12-14 or 78B-6-522, and arranged by the Office
of the Property Rights Ombudsman, the government entity or condemning entity
shall participate in the mediation or arbitration as if the matter were
ordered to mediation or arbitration by a court.
(3) (a) (i)  In conducting or arranging for arbitration under Subsection (1),
the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman shall follow the procedures and
requirements of Title 78B, Chapter 11, Utah Uniform Arbitration Act.
(ii)  In applying Title 78B, Chapter 11, Utah Uniform Arbitration Act, the
arbitrator and parties shall treat the matter as if:
(A)  it were ordered to arbitration by a court; and
(B)  the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman or other arbitrator chosen as
provided for in this section was appointed as arbitrator by the court.
(iii)  For the purpose of an arbitration conducted under this section, if the
dispute to be arbitrated is not already the subject of legal action, the
district court having jurisdiction over the county where the private property
involved in the dispute is located is the court referred to in Title 78B,
Chapter 11, Utah Uniform Arbitration Act.
(iv)  An arbitration award under this chapter may not be vacated under the
provisions of Subsection 78B-11-124(1)(e) because of the lack of an
arbitration agreement between the parties.
(b)  The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman shall issue a written
statement declining to arbitrate or to appoint an arbitrator when, in the
opinion of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman:
(i)  the issues are not ripe for review;
(ii)  assuming the alleged facts are true, no cause of action exists under
United States or Utah law;
(iii)  all issues raised are beyond the scope of the Office of the Property
Rights Ombudsman's statutory duty to review; or
(iv)  the arbitration is otherwise not appropriate.
(c) (i)  The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman shall appoint another
person to arbitrate a dispute when:
(A)  either party objects to the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
serving as the arbitrator and agrees to pay for the services of another
arbitrator;
(B)  the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman declines to arbitrate the
dispute for a reason other than those stated in Subsection (3)(b) and one or
both parties are willing to pay for the services of another arbitrator; or
(C)  the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman determines that it is
appropriate to appoint another person to arbitrate the dispute with no charge
to the parties for the services of the appointed arbitrator.
(ii)  In appointing another person to arbitrate a dispute, the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman shall appoint an arbitrator who is agreeable to:
(A)  both parties; or
(B)  the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman and the party paying for the
arbitrator.
(iii)  The Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman may, on its own initiative
or upon agreement of both parties, appoint a panel of arbitrators to conduct
the arbitration.
(iv)  The Department of Commerce may pay an arbitrator per diem and reimburse
expenses incurred in the performance of the arbitrator's duties at the rates
established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(d)  In arbitrating a dispute, the arbitrator shall apply the relevant
statutes, case law, regulations, and rules of Utah and the United States in
conducting the arbitration and in determining the award.
(e)  The property owner and government entity may agree in advance of
arbitration that the arbitration is binding and that no de novo review may
occur.
(f)  Arbitration by or through the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman is
not necessary before bringing legal action to adjudicate any claim.
(g)  The lack of arbitration by or through the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman does not constitute, and may not be interpreted as constituting, a
failure to exhaust available administrative remedies or as a bar to bringing
legal action.
(h)  Arbitration under this section is not subject to Title 63G, Chapter 4,
Administrative Procedures Act, or Title 78B, Chapter 6, Part 2, Alternative
Dispute Resolution Act.
(i)  Within 30 days after an arbitrator issues a final award, and except as
provided in Subsection (3)(e), any party may submit the award, or any issue
upon which the award is based, to the district court for de novo review.
(4)  The filing with the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman of a request
for mediation or arbitration of a constitutional taking issue does not stay
any county or municipal land use decision, including the decision of a board
of adjustment.
(5)  Members of the Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman may not be
compelled to testify in a civil action filed concerning the subject matter of
any review, mediation, or arbitration by the Office of the Property Rights
Ombudsman.
