57-14-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Charge" means the admission price or fee asked in return for permission to enter or go upon the land.

(2)  "Child" means an individual who is 16 years of age or younger.

(3)  "Inherent risks" means those dangers, conditions, and potentials for personal injury or property damage that are an integral and natural part of participating in an activity for a recreational purpose.

(4) (a)  "Land" means any land within the state boundaries.

(b)  "Land" includes roads, railway corridors, water, water courses, private ways and buildings, structures, and machinery or equipment when attached to the realty.

(5)  "Owner" means the possessor of any interest in the land, whether public or private land, including a tenant, a lessor, a lessee, an occupant, or person in control of the land.

(6)  "Person" includes any person, regardless of age, maturity, or experience, who enters upon or uses land for recreational purposes.

(7)  "Recreational purpose" includes, but is not limited to, any of the following or any combination thereof:

(a)  hunting;

(b)  fishing;

(c)  swimming;

(d)  skiing;

(e)  snowshoeing;

(f)  camping;

(g)  picnicking;

(h)  hiking;

(i)  studying nature;

(j)  waterskiing;

(k)  engaging in water sports;

(l)  engaging in equestrian activities;

(m)  using boats;

(n)  mountain biking;

(o)  riding narrow gauge rail cars on a narrow gauge track that does not exceed 24 inch gauge;

(p)  using off-highway vehicles or recreational vehicles;

(q)  viewing or enjoying historical, archaeological, scenic, or scientific sites;

(r)  aircraft operations; and

(s)  equestrian activity, skateboarding, skydiving, paragliding, hang gliding, roller skating, ice skating, walking, running, jogging, bike riding, or in-line skating.

(8)  "Serious physical injury" means any physical injury or set of physical injuries that:

(a)  seriously impairs a person's health;

(b)  was caused by use of a dangerous weapon as defined in Section 76-1-601;

(c)  involves physical torture or causes serious emotional harm to a person; or

(d)  creates a reasonable risk of death.

(9)  "Trespasser" means a person who enters on the land of another without:

(a)  express or implied permission; or

(b)  invitation.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 212, 2013 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 278, 2013 General Session

