31A-39-101.    Interstate Insurance Product Regulation Compact.
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Act, the State of Utah seeks to
join with other States and establish the Interstate Insurance Product
Regulation Compact, and thus become a member of the Interstate Insurance
Product Regulation Commission.  Utah's insurance commissioner is hereby
designated to serve as the representative of this State to the Commission.
ARTICLE I.  PURPOSES
The purposes of this Compact are, through means of joint and cooperative
action among the Compacting States:
1.  To promote and protect the interest of consumers of individual and group
annuity, life insurance, disability income and long-term care insurance
products;
2.  To develop uniform standards for insurance products covered under the
Compact;
3.  To establish a central clearinghouse to receive and provide prompt review
of insurance products covered under the Compact and in certain cases,
advertisements related thereto, submitted by insurers authorized to do
business in one or more Compacting States;
4.  To give appropriate regulatory approval to those product filings and
advertisements satisfying the applicable uniform standard;
5.  To improve coordination of regulatory resources and expertise between
state insurance departments regarding the setting of uniform standards and
review of insurance products covered under the Compact;
6.  To create the Interstate Insurance Product Regulation Commission; and
7.  To perform these and such other related functions as may be consistent
with the state regulation of the business of insurance.
ARTICLE II.  DEFINITIONS
For purposes of this Compact:
1.  "Advertisement" means any material designed to create public interest in a
Product, or induce the public to purchase, increase, modify, reinstate, borrow
on, surrender, replace or retain a policy, as more specifically defined in the
Rules and Operating Procedures of the Commission.
2.  "Bylaws" mean those bylaws established by the Commission for its
governance, or for directing or controlling the Commission's actions or
conduct.
3.  "Compacting State" means any State which has enacted this Compact
legislation and which has not withdrawn pursuant to Article XIV, Section 1, or
been terminated pursuant to Article XIV, Section 2.
4.  "Commission" means the "Interstate Insurance Product Regulation
Commission" established by this Compact.
5.  "Commissioner" means the chief insurance regulatory official of a State
including, but not limited to commissioner, superintendent, director or
administrator.
6.  "Domiciliary State" means the state in which an Insurer is incorporated or
organized; or, in the case of an alien Insurer, its state of entry.
7.  "Insurer" means any entity licensed by a State to issue contracts of
insurance for any of the lines of insurance covered by this Act.
8.  "Member" means the person chosen by a Compacting State as its
representative to the Commission, or his or her designee.
9.  "Non-compacting State" means any State which is not at the time a
Compacting State.
10.  "Operating Procedures" mean procedures promulgated by the Commission
implementing a Rule, Uniform Standard or a provision of this Compact.
11.  "Product" means the form of a policy or contract, including any
application, endorsement, or related form which is attached to and made a part
of the policy or contract, and any evidence of coverage or certificate, for an
individual or group annuity, life insurance, disability income or long-term
care insurance product that an Insurer is authorized to issue.
12.  "Rule" means a statement of general or particular applicability and
future effect promulgated by the Commission, including a Uniform Standard
developed pursuant to Article VII of this Compact, designed to implement,
interpret, or prescribe law or policy or describing the organization,
procedure, or practice requirements of the Commission, which shall have the
force and effect of law in the Compacting States.
13.  "State" means any state, district or territory of the United States of
America.
14.  "Third-Party Filer" means an entity that submits a Product filing to the
Commission on behalf of an Insurer.
15.  "Uniform Standard" means a standard adopted by the Commission for a
Product line, pursuant to Article VII of this Compact, and shall include all
of the Product requirements in aggregate; provided, that each Uniform Standard
shall be construed, whether express or implied, to prohibit the use of any
inconsistent, misleading or ambiguous provisions in a Product and the form of
the Product made available to the public shall not be unfair, inequitable or
against public policy as determined by the Commission.
ARTICLE III.  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMISSION AND VENUE
1.  The Compacting States hereby create and establish a joint public agency
known as the "Interstate Insurance Product Regulation Commission." Pursuant to
Article IV, the Commission will have the power to develop Uniform Standards
for Product lines, receive and provide prompt review of Products filed
therewith, and give approval to those Product filings satisfying applicable
Uniform Standards; provided, it is not intended for the Commission to be the
exclusive entity for receipt and review of insurance product filings. Nothing
herein shall prohibit any Insurer from filing its product in any State wherein
the Insurer is licensed to conduct the business of insurance; and any such
filing shall be subject to the laws of the State where filed.
2.  The Commission is a body corporate and politic, and an instrumentality of
the Compacting States.
3.  The Commission is solely responsible for its liabilities except as
otherwise specifically provided in this Compact.
4.  Venue is proper and judicial proceedings by or against the Commission
shall be brought solely and exclusively in a Court of competent jurisdiction
where the principal office of the Commission is located.
ARTICLE IV.  POWERS OF THE COMMISSION
The Commission shall have the following powers:
1.  To promulgate Rules, pursuant to Article VII of this Compact, which shall
have the force and effect of law and shall be binding in the Compacting States
to the extent and in the manner provided in this Compact;
2.  To exercise its rulemaking authority and establish reasonable Uniform
Standards for Products covered under the Compact, and Advertisement related
thereto, which shall have the force and effect of law and shall be binding in
the Compacting States, but only for those Products filed with the Commission,
provided, that a Compacting State shall have the right to opt out of such
Uniform Standard pursuant to Article VII, to the extent and in the manner
provided in this Compact, and, provided further, that any Uniform Standard
established by the Commission for long-term care insurance products may
provide the same or greater protections for consumers as, but shall not
provide less than, those protections set forth in the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners’ Long-Term Care Insurance Model Act and Long-Term
Care Insurance Model Regulation, respectively, adopted as of 2001. The
Commission shall consider whether any subsequent amendments to the NAIC Long-
Term Care Insurance Model Act or Long-Term Care Insurance Model Regulation
adopted by the NAIC require amending of the Uniform Standards established by
the Commission for long-term care insurance products;
3.  To receive and review in an expeditious manner Products filed with the
Commission, and rate filings for disability income and long-term care
insurance Products, and give approval of those Products and rate filings that
satisfy the applicable Uniform Standard, where such approval shall have the
force and effect of law and be binding on the Compacting States to the extent
and in the manner provided in the Compact;
4.  To receive and review in an expeditious manner Advertisement relating to
long-term care insurance products for which Uniform Standards have been
adopted by the Commission, and give approval to all Advertisement that
satisfies the applicable Uniform Standard. For any product covered under this
Compact, other than long-term care insurance products, the Commission shall
have the authority to require an insurer to submit all or any part of its
Advertisement with respect to that product for review or approval prior to
use, if the Commission determines that the nature of the product is such that
an Advertisement of the product could have the capacity or tendency to mislead
the public. The actions of Commission as provided in this section shall have
the force and effect of law and shall be binding in the Compacting States to
the extent and in the manner provided in the Compact;
5.  To exercise its rulemaking authority and designate Products and
Advertisement that may be subject to a self-certification process without the
need for prior approval by the Commission;
6.  To promulgate Operating Procedures, pursuant to Article VII of this
Compact, which shall be binding in the Compacting States to the extent and in
the manner provided in this Compact;
7.  To bring and prosecute legal proceedings or actions in its name as the
Commission; provided, that the standing of any state insurance department to
sue or be sued under applicable law shall not be affected;
8.  To issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and
the production of evidence;
9.  To establish and maintain offices;
10.  To purchase and maintain insurance and bonds;
11.  To borrow, accept or contract for services of personnel, including, but
not limited to, employees of a Compacting State;
12.  To hire employees, professionals or specialists, and elect or appoint
officers, and to fix their compensation, define their duties and give them
appropriate authority to carry out the purposes of the Compact, and determine
their qualifications; and to establish the Commission's personnel policies and
programs relating to, among other things, conflicts of interest, rates of
compensation and qualifications of personnel;
13.  To accept any and all appropriate donations and grants of money,
equipment, supplies, materials and services, and to receive, utilize and
dispose of the same; provided that at all times the Commission shall strive to
avoid any appearance of impropriety;
14.  To lease, purchase, accept appropriate gifts or donations of, or
otherwise to own, hold, improve or use, any property, real, personal or mixed;
provided that at all times the Commission shall strive to avoid any appearance
of impropriety;
15.  To sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, lease, exchange, abandon or otherwise
dispose of any property, real, personal or mixed;
16.  To remit filing fees to Compacting States as may be set forth in the
Bylaws, Rules or Operating Procedures;
17.  To enforce compliance by Compacting States with Rules, Uniform Standards,
Operating Procedures and Bylaws;
18.  To provide for dispute resolution among Compacting States;
19.  To advise Compacting States on issues relating to Insurers domiciled or
doing business in Non-compacting jurisdictions, consistent with the purposes
of this Compact;
20.  To provide advice and training to those personnel in state insurance
departments responsible for product review, and to be a resource for state
insurance departments;
21.  To establish a budget and make expenditures;
22.  To borrow money;
23.  To appoint committees, including advisory committees comprising Members,
state insurance regulators, state legislators or their representatives,
insurance industry and consumer representatives, and such other interested
persons as may be designated in the Bylaws;
24.  To provide and receive information from, and to cooperate with law
enforcement agencies;
25.  To adopt and use a corporate seal; and
26.  To perform such other functions as may be necessary or appropriate to
achieve the purposes of this Compact consistent with the state regulation of
the business of insurance.
ARTICLE V.  ORGANIZATION OF THE COMMISSION
1.  Membership, Voting and Bylaws
a.  Each Compacting State shall have and be limited to one Member. Each Member
shall be qualified to serve in that capacity pursuant to applicable law of the
Compacting State. Any Member may be removed or suspended from office as
provided by the law of the State from which he or she shall be appointed. Any
vacancy occurring in the Commission shall be filled in accordance with the
laws of the Compacting State wherein the vacancy exists. Nothing herein shall
be construed to affect the manner in which a Compacting State determines the
election or appointment and qualification of its own Commissioner.
b.  Each Member shall be entitled to one vote and shall have an opportunity to
participate in the governance of the Commission in accordance with the Bylaws.
Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, no action of the
Commission with respect to the promulgation of a Uniform Standard shall be
effective unless two-thirds (2/3) of the Members vote in favor thereof.
c.  The Commission shall, by a majority of the Members, prescribe Bylaws to
govern its conduct as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the
purposes, and exercise the powers, of the Compact, including, but not limited
to:
i.  establishing the fiscal year of the Commission;
ii.  providing reasonable procedures for appointing and electing members, as
well as holding meetings, of the Management Committee;
iii.  providing reasonable standards and procedures: (i) for the establishment
and meetings of other committees, and (ii) governing any general or specific
delegation of any authority or function of the Commission;
iv.  providing reasonable procedures for calling and conducting meetings of
the Commission that consists of a majority of Commission members, ensuring
reasonable advance notice of each such meeting, and providing for the right of
citizens to attend each such meeting with enumerated exceptions designed to
protect the public’s interest, the privacy of individuals, and insurers’
proprietary information, including trade secrets. The Commission may meet in
camera only after a majority of the entire membership votes to close a meeting
en toto or in part.  As soon as practicable, the Commission must make public
(i) a copy of the vote to close the meeting revealing the vote of each Member
with no proxy votes allowed, and (ii) votes taken during such meeting;
v.  establishing the titles, duties and authority and reasonable procedures
for the election of the officers of the Commission;
vi.  providing reasonable standards and procedures for the establishment of
the personnel policies and programs of the Commission. Notwithstanding any
civil service or other similar laws of any Compacting State, the Bylaws shall
exclusively govern the personnel policies and programs of the Commission;
vii.  promulgating a code of ethics to address permissible and prohibited
activities of commission members and employees; and
viii.  providing a mechanism for winding up the operations of the Commission
and the equitable disposition of any surplus funds that may exist after the
termination of the Compact after the payment and/or reserving of all of its
debts and obligations.
d.  The Commission shall publish its bylaws in a convenient form and file a
copy thereof and a copy of any amendment thereto, with the appropriate agency
or officer in each of the Compacting States.
2.  Management Committee, Officers and Personnel
a.  A Management Committee comprising no more than fourteen (14) members shall
be established as follows:
(i)  One (1) member from each of the six (6) Compacting States with the
largest premium volume for individual and group annuities, life, disability
income and long-term care insurance products, determined from the records of
the NAIC for the prior year;
(ii)  Four (4) members from those Compacting States with at least two percent
(2%) of the market based on the premium volume described above, other than the
six (6) Compacting States with the largest premium volume, selected on a
rotating basis as provided in the Bylaws, and;
(iii)  Four (4) members from those Compacting States with less than two
percent (2%) of the market, based on the premium volume described above, with
one (1) selected from each of the four (4) zone regions of the NAIC as
provided in the Bylaws.
b.  The Management Committee shall have such authority and duties as may be
set forth in the Bylaws, including but not limited to:
i.  managing the affairs of the Commission in a manner consistent with the
Bylaws and purposes of the Commission;
ii.  establishing and overseeing an organizational structure within, and
appropriate procedures for, the Commission to provide for the creation of
Uniform Standards and other Rules, receipt and review of product filings,
administrative and technical support functions, review of decisions regarding
the disapproval of a product filing, and the review of elections made by a
Compacting State to opt out of a Uniform Standard; provided that a Uniform
Standard shall not be submitted to the Compacting States for adoption unless
approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the Management Committee;
iii.  overseeing the offices of the Commission; and
iv.  planning, implementing, and coordinating communications and activities
with other state, federal and local government organizations in order to
advance the goals of the Commission.
c.  The Commission shall elect annually officers from the Management
Committee, with each having such authority and duties, as may be specified in
the Bylaws.
d.  The Management Committee may, subject to the approval of the Commission,
appoint or retain an executive director for such period, upon such terms and
conditions and for such compensation as the Commission may deem appropriate.
The executive director shall serve as secretary to the Commission, but shall
not be a Member of the Commission. The executive director shall hire and
supervise such other staff as may be authorized by the Commission.
3.  Legislative and Advisory Committees
a.  A legislative committee comprising state legislators or their designees
shall be established to monitor the operations of, and make recommendations
to, the Commission, including the Management Committee; provided that the
manner of selection and term of any legislative committee member shall be as
set forth in the Bylaws. Prior to the adoption by the Commission of any
Uniform Standard, revision to the Bylaws, annual budget or other significant
matter as may be provided in the Bylaws, the Management Committee shall
consult with and report to the legislative committee.
b.  The Commission shall establish two (2) advisory committees, one of which
shall comprise consumer representatives independent of the insurance industry,
and the other comprising insurance industry representatives.
c.  The Commission may establish additional advisory committees as its Bylaws
may provide for the carrying out of its functions.
4.  Corporate Records of the Commission
The Commission shall maintain its corporate books and records in accordance
with the Bylaws.
5.  Qualified Immunity, Defense and Indemnification
a.  The Members, officers, executive director, employees and representatives
of the Commission shall be immune from suit and liability, either personally
or in their official capacity, for any claim for damage to or loss of property
or personal injury or other civil liability caused by or arising out of any
actual or alleged act, error or omission that occurred, or that the person
against whom the claim is made had a reasonable basis for believing occurred
within the scope of Commission employment, duties or responsibilities;
provided, that nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to protect any
such person from suit and/or liability for any damage, loss, injury or
liability caused by the intentional or willful and wanton misconduct of that
person.
b.  The Commission shall defend any Member, officer, executive director,
employee or representative of the Commission in any civil action seeking to
impose liability arising out of any actual or alleged act, error or omission
that occurred within the scope of Commission employment, duties or
responsibilities, or that the person against whom the claim is made had a
reasonable basis for believing occurred within the scope of Commission
employment, duties or responsibilities; provided, that nothing herein shall be
construed to prohibit that person from retaining his or her own counsel; and
provided further, that the actual or alleged act, error or omission did not
result from that person’s intentional or willful and wanton misconduct.
c.  The Commission shall indemnify and hold harmless any Member, officer,
executive director, employee or representative of the Commission for the
amount of any settlement or judgment obtained against that person arising out
of any actual or alleged act, error or omission that occurred within the scope
of Commission employment, duties or responsibilities, or that such person had
a reasonable basis for believing occurred within the scope of Commission
employment, duties or responsibilities, provided, that the actual or alleged
act, error or omission did not result from the intentional or willful and
wanton misconduct of that person.
ARTICLE VI.  MEETINGS AND ACTS OF THE COMMISSION
1.  The Commission shall meet and take such actions as are consistent with the
provisions of this Compact and the Bylaws.
2.  Each Member of the Commission shall have the right and power to cast a
vote to which that Compacting State is entitled and to participate in the
business and affairs of the Commission. A Member shall vote in person or by
such other means as provided in the Bylaws. The Bylaws may provide for
Members' participation in meetings by telephone or other means of
communication.
3.  The Commission shall meet at least once during each calendar year.
Additional meetings shall be held as set forth in the Bylaws.
ARTICLE VII.  RULES & OPERATING PROCEDURES: RULEMAKING FUNCTIONS
OF THE COMMISSION AND OPTING OUT OF UNIFORM STANDARDS
1.  Rulemaking Authority.  The Commission shall promulgate reasonable Rules,
including Uniform Standards, and Operating Procedures in order to effectively
and efficiently achieve the purposes of this Compact. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in the event the Commission exercises its rulemaking authority in a
manner that is beyond the scope of the purposes of this Act, or the powers
granted hereunder, then such an action by the Commission shall be invalid and
have no force and effect.
2.  Rulemaking Procedure. Rules and Operating Procedures shall be made
pursuant to a rulemaking process that conforms to the Model State
Administrative Procedure Act of 1981 as amended, as may be appropriate to the
operations of the Commission. Before the Commission adopts a Uniform Standard,
the Commission shall give written notice to the relevant state legislative
committee(s) in each Compacting State responsible for insurance issues of its
intention to adopt the Uniform Standard. The Commission in adopting a Uniform
Standard shall consider fully all submitted materials and issue a concise
explanation of its decision.
3.  Effective Date and Opt Out of a Uniform Standard.  A Uniform Standard
shall become effective ninety (90) days after its promulgation by the
Commission or such later date as the Commission may determine; provided,
however, that a Compacting State may opt out of a Uniform Standard as provided
in this Article. "Opt out" shall be defined as any action by a Compacting
State to decline to adopt or participate in a promulgated Uniform Standard.
All other Rules and Operating Procedures, and amendments thereto, shall become
effective as of the date specified in each Rule, Operating Procedure or
amendment.
4.  Opt Out Procedure.  A Compacting State may opt out of a Uniform Standard,
either by legislation or regulation duly promulgated by the Insurance
Department under the Compacting State’s Administrative Procedure Act. If a
Compacting State elects to opt out of a Uniform Standard by regulation, it
must (a) give written notice to the Commission no later than ten (10) business
days after the Uniform Standard is promulgated, or at the time the State
becomes a Compacting State and (b) find that the Uniform Standard does not
provide reasonable protections to the citizens of the State, given the
conditions in the State. The Commissioner shall make specific findings of fact
and conclusions of law, based on a preponderance of the evidence, detailing
the conditions in the State which warrant a departure from the Uniform
Standard and determining that the Uniform Standard would not reasonably
protect the citizens of the State. The Commissioner must consider and balance
the following factors and find that the conditions in the State and needs of
the citizens of the State outweigh: (i) the intent of the legislature to
participate in, and the benefits of, an interstate agreement to establish
national uniform consumer protections for the Products subject to this Act;
and (ii) the presumption that a Uniform Standard adopted by the Commission
provides reasonable protections to consumers of the relevant Product.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Compacting State may, at the time of its
enactment of this Compact, prospectively opt out of all Uniform Standards
involving long-term care insurance products by expressly providing for such
opt out in the enacted Compact, and such an opt out shall not be treated as a
material variance in the offer or acceptance of any State to participate in
this Compact. Such an opt out shall be effective at the time of enactment of
this Compact by the Compacting State and shall apply to all existing Uniform
Standards involving long-term care insurance products and those subsequently
promulgated.
5.  Effect of Opt Out.  If a Compacting State elects to opt out of a Uniform
Standard, the Uniform Standard shall remain applicable in the Compacting State
electing to opt out until such time the opt out legislation is enacted into
law or the regulation opting out becomes effective.
Once the opt out of a Uniform Standard by a Compacting State becomes effective
as provided under the laws of that State, the Uniform Standard shall have no
further force and effect in that State unless and until the legislation or
regulation implementing the opt out is repealed or otherwise becomes
ineffective under the laws of the State. If a Compacting State opts out of a
Uniform Standard after the Uniform Standard has been made effective in that
State, the opt out shall have the same prospective effect as provided under
Article XIV for withdrawals.
6.  Stay of Uniform Standard.  If a Compacting State has formally initiated
the process of opting out of a Uniform Standard by regulation, and while the
regulatory opt out is pending, the Compacting State may petition the
Commission, at least fifteen (15) days before the effective date of the
Uniform Standard, to stay the effectiveness of the Uniform Standard in that
State. The Commission may grant a stay if it determines the regulatory opt out
is being pursued in a reasonable manner and there is a likelihood of success.
If a stay is granted or extended by the Commission, the stay or extension
thereof may postpone the effective date by up to ninety (90) days, unless
affirmatively extended by the Commission; provided, a stay may not be
permitted to remain in effect for more than one (1) year unless the Compacting
State can show extraordinary circumstances which warrant a continuance of the
stay, including, but not limited to, the existence of a legal challenge which
prevents the Compacting State from opting out. A stay may be terminated by the
Commission upon notice that the rulemaking process has been terminated.
7.  Not later than thirty (30) days after a Rule or Operating Procedure is
promulgated, any person may file a petition for judicial review of the Rule or
Operating Procedure; provided, that the filing of such a petition shall not
stay or otherwise prevent the Rule or Operating Procedure from becoming
effective unless the court finds that the petitioner has a substantial
likelihood of success. The court shall give deference to the actions of the
Commission consistent with applicable law and shall not find the Rule or
Operating Procedure to be unlawful if the Rule or Operating Procedure
represents a reasonable exercise of the Commission’s authority.
ARTICLE VIII.  COMMISSION RECORDS AND ENFORCEMENT
1.  The Commission shall promulgate Rules establishing conditions and
procedures for public inspection and copying of its information and official
records, except such information and records involving the privacy of
individuals and insurers’ trade secrets. The Commission may promulgate
additional Rules under which it may make available to federal and state
agencies, including law enforcement agencies, records and information
otherwise exempt from disclosure, and may enter into agreements with such
agencies to receive or exchange information or records subject to
nondisclosure and confidentiality provisions.
2.  Except as to privileged records, data and information, the laws of any
Compacting State pertaining to confidentiality or nondisclosure shall not
relieve any Compacting State Commissioner of the duty to disclose any relevant
records, data or information to the Commission; provided, that disclosure to
the Commission shall not be deemed to waive or otherwise affect any
confidentiality requirement; and further provided, that, except as otherwise
expressly provided in this Act, the Commission shall not be subject to the
Compacting State's laws pertaining to confidentiality and nondisclosure with
respect to records, data and information in its possession. Confidential
information of the Commission shall remain confidential after such information
is provided to any Commissioner.
3.  The Commission shall monitor Compacting States for compliance with duly
adopted Bylaws, Rules, including Uniform Standards, and Operating Procedures.
The Commission shall notify any non-complying Compacting State in writing of
its noncompliance with Commission Bylaws, Rules or Operating Procedures. If a
non-complying Compacting State fails to remedy its noncompliance within the
time specified in the notice of noncompliance, the Compacting State shall be
deemed to be in default as set forth in Article XIV.
4.  The Commissioner of any State in which an Insurer is authorized to do
business, or is conducting the business of insurance, shall continue to
exercise his or her authority to oversee the market regulation of the
activities of the Insurer in accordance with the provisions of the State’s
law. The Commissioner’s enforcement of compliance with the Compact is
governed by the following provisions:
a.  With respect to the Commissioner’s market regulation of a Product or
Advertisement that is approved or certified to the Commission, the content of
the Product or Advertisement shall not constitute a violation of the
provisions, standards or requirements of the Compact except upon a final order
of the Commission, issued at the request of a Commissioner after prior notice
to the Insurer and an opportunity for hearing before the Commission.
b.  Before a Commissioner may bring an action for violation of any provision,
standard or requirement of the Compact relating to the content of an
Advertisement not approved or certified to the Commission, the Commission, or
an authorized Commission officer or employee, must authorize the action.
However, authorization pursuant to this Paragraph does not require notice to
the Insurer, opportunity for hearing or disclosure of requests for
authorization or records of the Commission’s action on such requests.
ARTICLE IX.  DISPUTE RESOLUTION
The  Commission shall attempt, upon the request of a Member, to resolve any
disputes or other issues that are subject to this Compact and which may arise
between two or more Compacting States, or between Compacting States and Non-
compacting States, and the Commission shall promulgate an Operating Procedure
providing for resolution of such disputes.
ARTICLE X.  PRODUCT FILING AND APPROVAL
1.  Insurers and Third-Party Filers seeking to have a Product approved by the
Commission shall file the Product with, and pay applicable filing fees to, the
Commission. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to restrict or otherwise
prevent an insurer from filing its Product with the insurance department in
any State wherein the insurer is licensed to conduct the business of
insurance, and such filing shall be subject to the laws of the States where
filed.
2.  The Commission shall establish appropriate filing and review processes and
procedures pursuant to Commission Rules and Operating Procedures.
Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the Commission shall
promulgate Rules to establish conditions and procedures under which the
Commission will provide public access to Product filing information. In
establishing such Rules, the Commission shall consider the interests of the
public in having access to such information, as well as protection of personal
medical and financial information and trade secrets, that may be contained in
a Product filing or supporting information.
3.  Any Product approved by the Commission may be sold or otherwise issued in
those Compacting States for which the Insurer is legally authorized to do
business.
ARTICLE XI.  REVIEW OF COMMISSION DECISIONS REGARDING FILINGS
1.  Not later than thirty (30) days after the Commission has given notice of a
disapproved Product or Advertisement filed with the Commission, the Insurer or
Third-Party Filer whose filing was disapproved may appeal the determination to
a review panel appointed by the Commission. The Commission shall promulgate
Rules to establish procedures for appointing such review panels and provide
for notice and hearing. An allegation that the Commission, in disapproving a
Product or Advertisement filed with the Commission, acted arbitrarily,
capriciously, or in a manner that is an abuse of discretion or otherwise not
in accordance with the law, is subject to judicial review in accordance with
Article III, Section 4.
2.  The Commission shall have authority to monitor, review and reconsider
Products and Advertisement subsequent to their filing or approval upon a
finding that the product does not meet the relevant Uniform Standard. Where
appropriate, the Commission may withdraw or modify its approval after proper
notice and hearing, subject to the appeal process in Section 1 above.
ARTICLE XII.  FINANCE
1.  The Commission shall pay or provide for the payment of the reasonable
expenses of its establishment and organization. To fund the cost of its
initial operations, the Commission may accept contributions and other forms of
funding from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, Compacting
States and other sources. Contributions and other forms of funding from other
sources shall be of such a nature that the independence of the Commission
concerning the performance of its duties shall not be compromised.
2.  The Commission shall collect a filing fee from each Insurer and Third-
Party Filer filing a product with the Commission to cover the cost of the
operations and activities of the Commission and its staff in a total amount
sufficient to cover the Commission's annual budget.
3.  The Commission's budget for a fiscal year shall not be approved until it
has been subject to notice and comment as set forth in Article VII of this
Compact.
4.  The Commission shall be exempt from all taxation in and by the Compacting
States.
5.  The Commission shall not pledge the credit of any Compacting State, except
by and with the appropriate legal authority of that Compacting State.
6.  The Commission shall keep complete and accurate accounts of all its
internal receipts, including grants and donations, and disbursements of all
funds under its control. The internal financial accounts of the Commission
shall be subject to the accounting procedures established under its Bylaws.
The financial accounts and reports including the system of internal controls
and procedures of the Commission shall be audited annually by an independent
certified public accountant. Upon the determination of the Commission, but no
less frequently than every three (3) years, the review of the independent
auditor shall include a management and performance audit of the Commission.
The Commission shall make an Annual Report to the Governor and legislature of
the Compacting States, which shall include a report of the independent audit.
The Commission's internal accounts shall not be confidential and such
materials may be shared with the Commissioner of any Compacting State upon
request, provided, however, that any work papers related to any internal or
independent audit and any information regarding the privacy of individuals and
insurers’ proprietary information, including trade secrets, shall remain
confidential.
7.  No Compacting State shall have any claim to or ownership of any property
held by or vested in the Commission or to any Commission funds held pursuant
to the provisions of this Compact.
ARTICLE XIII.  COMPACTING STATES, EFFECTIVE DATE AND AMENDMENT
1.  Any State is eligible to become a Compacting State.
2.  The Compact shall become effective and binding upon legislative enactment
of the Compact into law by two Compacting States; provided, the Commission
shall become effective for purposes of adopting Uniform Standards for,
reviewing, and giving approval or disapproval of, Products filed with the
Commission that satisfy applicable Uniform Standards only after twenty-six
(26) States are Compacting States or, alternatively, by States representing
greater than forty percent (40%) of the premium volume for life insurance,
annuity, disability income and long-term care insurance products, based on
records of the NAIC for the prior year. Thereafter, it shall become effective
and binding as to any other Compacting State upon enactment of the Compact
into law by that State.
3.  Amendments to the Compact may be proposed by the Commission for enactment
by the Compacting States. No amendment shall become effective and binding upon
the Commission and the Compacting States unless and until all Compacting
States enact the amendment into law.
ARTICLE XIV.  WITHDRAWAL, DEFAULT AND TERMINATION
1.  Withdrawal
a.  Once effective, the Compact shall continue in force and remain binding
upon each and every Compacting State; provided, that a Compacting State may
withdraw from the Compact ("Withdrawing State") by enacting a statute
specifically repealing the statute which enacted the Compact into law.
b.  The effective date of withdrawal is the effective date of the repealing
statute. However, the withdrawal shall not apply to any product filings
approved or self-certified, or any Advertisement of such products, on the date
the repealing statute becomes effective, except by mutual agreement of the
Commission and the Withdrawing State unless the approval is rescinded by the
Withdrawing State as provided in Paragraph e of this section.
c.  The Commissioner of the Withdrawing State shall immediately notify the
Management Committee in writing upon the introduction of legislation repealing
this Compact in the Withdrawing State.
d.  The Commission shall notify the other Compacting States of the
introduction of such legislation within ten (10) days after its receipt of
notice thereof.
e.  The Withdrawing State is responsible for all obligations, duties and
liabilities incurred through the effective date of withdrawal, including any
obligations, the performance of which extend beyond the effective date of
withdrawal, except to the extent those obligations may have been released or
relinquished by mutual agreement of the Commission and the Withdrawing State.
The Commission’s approval of Products and Advertisement prior to the
effective date of withdrawal shall continue to be effective and be given full
force and effect in the Withdrawing State, unless formally rescinded by the
Withdrawing State in the same manner as provided by the laws of the
Withdrawing State for the prospective disapproval of products or advertisement
previously approved under state law.
f.  Reinstatement following withdrawal of any Compacting State shall occur
upon the effective date of the Withdrawing State reenacting the Compact.
2.  Default
a.  If the Commission determines that any Compacting State has at any time
defaulted ("Defaulting State") in the performance of any of its obligations or
responsibilities under this Compact, the Bylaws or duly promulgated Rules or
Operating Procedures, then, after notice and hearing as set forth in the
Bylaws, all rights, privileges and benefits conferred by this Compact on the
Defaulting State shall be suspended from the effective date of default as
fixed by the Commission. The grounds for default include, but are not limited
to, failure of a Compacting State to perform its obligations or
responsibilities, and any other grounds designated in Commission Rules. The
Commission shall immediately notify the Defaulting State in writing of the
Defaulting State's suspension pending a cure of the default. The Commission
shall stipulate the conditions and the time period within which the Defaulting
State must cure its default. If the Defaulting State fails to cure the default
within the time period specified by the Commission, the Defaulting State shall
be terminated from the Compact and all rights, privileges and benefits
conferred by this Compact shall be terminated from the effective date of
termination.
b.  Product approvals by the Commission or product self-certifications, or any
Advertisement in connection with such product, that are in force on the
effective date of termination shall remain in force in the Defaulting State in
the same manner as if the Defaulting State had withdrawn voluntarily pursuant
to Section 1 of this article.
c.  Reinstatement following termination of any Compacting State requires a
reenactment of the Compact.
3.  Dissolution of Compact
a.  The Compact dissolves effective upon the date of the withdrawal or default
of the Compacting State which reduces membership in the Compact to one
Compacting State.
b.  Upon the dissolution of this Compact, the Compact becomes null and void
and shall be of no further force or effect, and the business and affairs of
the Commission shall be wound up and any surplus funds shall be distributed in
accordance with the Bylaws.
ARTICLE XV.  SEVERABILITY AND CONSTRUCTION
1.  The provisions of this Compact shall be severable; and if any phrase,
clause, sentence or provision is deemed unenforceable, the remaining
provisions of the Compact shall be enforceable.
2.  The provisions of this Compact shall be liberally construed to effectuate
its purposes.
ARTICLE XVI.  BINDING EFFECT OF COMPACT AND OTHER LAWS
1.  Other Laws
a.  Nothing herein prevents the enforcement of any other law of a Compacting
State, except as provided in Paragraph b of this section.
b.  For any Product approved or certified to the Commission, the Rules,
Uniform Standards and any other requirements of the Commission shall
constitute the exclusive provisions applicable to the content, approval and
certification of such Products. For Advertisement that is subject to the
Commission’s authority, any Rule, Uniform Standard or other requirement of
the Commission which governs the content of the Advertisement shall constitute
the exclusive provision that a Commissioner may apply to the content of the
Advertisement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no action taken by the
Commission shall abrogate or restrict: (i) the access of any person to state
courts; (ii) remedies available under state law related to breach of contract,
tort, or other laws not specifically directed to the content of the Product;
(iii) state law relating to the construction of insurance contracts; or (iv)
the authority of the attorney general of the state, including but not limited
to maintaining any actions or proceedings, as authorized by law.
c.  All insurance products filed with individual States shall be subject to
the laws of those States.
2.  Binding Effect of this Compact
a.  All lawful actions of the Commission, including all Rules and Operating
Procedures promulgated by the Commission, are binding upon the Compacting
States.
b.  All agreements between the Commission and the Compacting States are
binding in accordance with their terms.
c.  Upon the request of a party to a conflict over the meaning or
interpretation of Commission actions, and upon a majority vote of the
Compacting States, the Commission may issue advisory opinions regarding the
meaning or interpretation in dispute.
d.  In the event any provision of this Compact exceeds the constitutional
limits imposed on the legislature of any Compacting State, the obligations,
duties, powers or jurisdiction sought to be conferred by that provision upon
the Commission shall be ineffective as to that Compacting State, and those
obligations, duties, powers or jurisdiction shall remain in the Compacting
State and shall be exercised by the agency thereof to which those obligations,
duties, powers or jurisdiction are delegated by law in effect at the time this
Compact becomes effective.
