23-27-303.   Closing a water body, facility, or water supply system.
(1)  Except as provided by Subsection (6), if the division detects or suspects
a Dreissena mussel is present in a water body, a facility, or a water supply
system, the director or the director's designee may, with the concurrence of
the executive director, order:
(a)  the water body, facility, or water supply system closed to a conveyance
or equipment;
(b)  restricted access by a conveyance or equipment to a water body, facility,
or water supply system; or
(c)  a conveyance or equipment that is removed from or introduced to the water
body, facility, or water supply system to be inspected, quarantined, or
decontaminated in a manner and for a duration necessary to detect and prevent
the infestation of a Dreissena mussel.
(2)  If a closure authorized by Subsection (1) lasts longer than seven days,
the division shall:
(a)  provide a written update to the operator of the water body, facility, or
water supply system every ten days on the division's effort to address the
Dreissena infestation; and
(b)  post the update on the division's website.
(3) (a)  The board shall develop procedures to ensure proper notification of a
state, federal, or local agency that is affected by a Dreissena mussel
infestation.
(b)  The notification shall include:
(i)  the reasons for the closure, quarantine, or restriction; and
(ii)  methods for providing updated information to the agency.
(4)  When deciding the scope, duration, level, and type of restriction or a
quarantine or closure location, the director shall consult with the person
with the jurisdiction, control, or management responsibility over the water
body, facility, or water supply system to avoid or minimize disruption of
economic and recreational activity.
(5) (a)  A person that operates a water supply system shall cooperate with the
division to implement a measure to:
(i)  avoid infestation by a Dreissena mussel; and
(ii)  control or eradicate a Dreissena mussel infestation that may occur in a
water supply system.
(b) (i)  If a Dreissena mussel is detected, the water supply system's
operator, in cooperation with the division, shall prepare and implement a plan
to control or eradicate a Dreissena mussel within the water supply system.
(ii)  A plan required by Subsection (5)(b)(i) shall include a:
(A)  method for determining the scope and extent of the infestation;
(B)  method to control or eradicate the Dreissena mussel;
(C)  method to decontaminate the water supply system containing the Dreissena
mussel;
(D)  systematic monitoring program to determine a change in the infestation;
and
(E)  requirement to update or revise the plan in conformity with a scientific
advance in the method of controlling or eradicating a Dreissena mussel.
(6) (a)  The division may not close or quarantine a water supply system if the
operator has prepared and implemented a plan to control or eradicate a
Dreissena mussel in accordance with Subsection (5).
(b) (i)  The division may require the operator to update a plan.
(ii)  If the operator fails to update or revise a plan, the division may close
or quarantine the water supply system in accordance with this section.
