23-28-201.   Creation of a migratory bird production area.

(1) (a)  On or before July 1, 2010, an owner or owners of at least 500 contiguous acres of land in an unincorporated area may dedicate the land as a migratory bird production area by filing a notice of dedication with the county recorder of the county in which the land is located.

(b)  The notice of dedication shall contain:

(i)  the legal description of the land included within the migratory bird production area;

(ii)  the name of the owner or owners of the land included within the migratory bird production area; and

(iii)  an affidavit signed by each landowner that all of the land, except as provided by Subsection (2), within the migratory bird production area is:

(A)  actively managed for migratory bird:

(I)  production;

(II)  habitat; or

(III)  hunting; and

(B)  used for a purpose compatible with the purposes described in Subsection (1)(b)(iii)(A).

(c)  A person who files a notice of dedication under this section shall give a copy of the notice of dedication within 10 days of its filing to the legislative body of the county in which the migratory bird production area is located.

(2) (a)  The notice of dedication may designate land, the amount of which is less than 1% of the total acreage within a migratory bird production area, upon which the landowner may build a structure described in Subsection 23-28-302(1)(b).

(b) (i)  An owner may build or maintain a road, dike, or water control structure within the migratory bird production area.

(ii)  A road, dike, or water control structure is not considered a structure for purposes of Subsection (2)(a).

(3) (a)  Within 30 days of the day on which the county legislative body receives a copy of the notice of dedication under Subsection (1)(c), the county legislative body may bring an action in district court to cancel or revise a migratory bird production area on the basis that an affidavit filed as part of the notice of dedication under Subsection (1)(b)(iii) is inaccurate.

(b)  In bringing the action, the county legislative body shall specify the portion of the migratory bird production area and the affidavit subject to the action.

(c)  In an action brought under this Subsection (3), the person who files an affidavit described in Subsection (3)(a) has the burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the affidavit is accurate.

(d)  If the court cancels or revises a migratory bird production area, the person who filed the original notice of dedication shall file a revision notice with the county recorder reflecting the court's order.

