53-10-601.   Utah 911 Committee.

(1)  There is created within the division, the Utah 911 Committee consisting of the following 18 members:

(a)  a representative from each of the following primary emergency public safety answering points:

(i)  Salt Lake County;

(ii)  Davis County;

(iii)  Utah County;

(iv)  Weber County; and

(v)  Washington County;

(b) six members representing the following primary emergency public safety answering points:

(i)  Bear River Association;

(ii)  Uintah Basin Association;

(iii)  South East Association;

(iv)  Six County Association;

(v)  Five County Association; and

(vi)  Mountainlands Association, not including Utah County;

(c)  the following people with knowledge of technology and equipment that might be needed for an emergency public safety answering system:

(i)  a representative from a local exchange carrier;

(ii)  a representative from a rural incumbent local exchange carrier; and

(iii)  two representatives from radio communications services as defined in Section 69-2-2;

(d)  two representatives from the Department of Public Safety, one of whom represents urban Utah and the other rural Utah; and

(e)  a representative from the Department of Technology Services, created in Title 63F, Chapter 1.

(2) (a)  Each committee member shall be appointed as follows:

(i)  a member described in Subsection (1)(a) shall be appointed by the governor from a nominee or nominees submitted to the governor by the council of government for that member's county;

(ii)  the six members described in Subsection (1)(b) shall be appointed by the governor from a nominee or nominees submitted to the governor by the associations described in Subsection (1)(b) as follows:

(A)  the six associations shall select by lot, the first four associations to begin the rotation of membership as required by Subsection (2)(b)(i); and

(B)  as each association is represented on the commission in accordance with Subsection (2)(b)(i), that association shall select the person to represent it on the commission;

(iii)  the members described in Subsection (1)(c) shall be appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate; and

(iv)  the members described in Subsections (1)(d) and (e) shall be appointed by the governor.

(b)  The term of office of each member is four years, except as provided in Subsections (2)(b)(ii) through (iv).

(i)  The representatives from Subsection (1)(b) must rotate to provide each geographic location at least one representative every four years, except as provided for the initial appointment under Subsection (2)(b)(ii).

(ii)  The associations listed in Subsection (1)(b) shall select by lot, two of its members to an initial two-year term.

(iii)  The governor shall appoint two representatives from Subsection (1)(c) to initial two-year terms.

(iv)  The public service answering points listed in Subsection (1)(a) shall, by lot, select two members to serve an initial two-year term.

(c)  No member of the committee may serve more that two consecutive four-year terms.

(d)  Each mid-term vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as an appointment under Subsection (2)(a).

(3) (a)  Committee members shall elect a chair from their number and establish rules for the organization and operation of the committee, with the chair rotating among representatives from Subsections (1)(a), (b), and (d) every year.

(b)  Staff services to the committee:

(i)  shall be provided by the division; and

(ii)  may be provided by local entities through the Utah Association of Counties and the Utah League of Cities and Towns.

(c)  Funding for staff services shall be provided with funds approved by the committee from those identified under Section 53-10-605.

(4) (a)  No member may receive compensation or benefits for the member's service on the committee.

(b)  A member is not required to give bond for the performance of official duties.



Amended by Chapter 77, 2008 General Session

