53-10-602.   Committee's duties and powers.
(1)  The committee shall:
(a)  review and make recommendations to the division, the Bureau of
Communications, public safety answering points, and the Legislature on:
(i)  technical, administrative, fiscal, and operational issues for the
implementation of a unified statewide wireless and land-based E-911 emergency
system;
(ii)  specific technology and standards for the implementation of a unified
statewide wireless and land-based E-911 emergency system;
(iii)  emerging technological upgrades;
(iv)  expenditures by local public service answering points to assure
implementation of a unified statewide wireless and land-based E-911 emergency
system and standards of operation; and
(v)  mapping systems and technology necessary to implement the unified
statewide wireless and land-based E-911 emergency system;
(b)  administer the fund as provided in this part;
(c)  assist as many local entities as possible, at their request, to implement
the recommendations of the committee; and
(d)  fulfill all other duties imposed on the committee by the Legislature by
this part.
(2)  The committee may sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of equipment or
personal property belonging to the committee, the proceeds from which shall
return to the fund.
(3) (a)  The committee shall review information regarding:
(i)  in aggregate, the number of telecommunication service subscribers by
telecommunication service type in a political subdivision;
(ii)  911 call delivery network costs;
(iii)  public safety answering point costs; and
(iv)  system engineering information.
(b)  In accordance with Subsection (3)(a) the committee may request:
(i)  information as described in Subsection (3)(a)(i) from the Utah State Tax
Commission; and
(ii)  information from public safety answering points connected to the 911
call delivery system.
(c)  The information requested by and provided to the committee under
Subsection (3) is a protected record in accordance with Section 63G-2-305.
(4)  The committee shall issue the reimbursement allowed under Subsection
53-10-605(1)(b) provided that:
(a)  the reimbursement is based on aggregated cost studies submitted to the
committee by the wireless carriers seeking reimbursement; and
(b)  the reimbursement to any one carrier does not exceed 125% of the wireless
carrier's contribution to the fund.
(5)  The committee shall adopt rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to administer the fund created in Section
53-10-603 including rules that establish the criteria, standards, technology,
and equipment that a local entity or state agency must adopt in order to
qualify for grants from the fund.
(6)  This section does not expand the authority of the Utah State Tax
Commission to request additional information from a telecommunication service
provider.
