58-31d-102.   Advanced Practice Registered Nurse Compact.
The Advanced Practice Registered Nurse Compact is hereby enacted and entered
into with all other jurisdictions that legally join in the compact, which is,
in form, substantially as follows:
Advanced Practice Registered Nurse Compact
ARTICLE I
Findings and Declaration of Purpose
(1)  The party states find that:
(a)  the health and safety of the public are affected by the degree of
compliance with APRN licensure/authority to practice requirements and the
effectiveness of enforcement activities related to state APRN
licensure/authority to practice laws;
(b)  violations of APRN licensure/authority to practice and other laws
regulating the practice of nursing may result in injury or harm to the public;
(c)  the expanded mobility of APRNs and the use of advanced communication
technologies as part of our nation's health care delivery system require
greater coordination and cooperation among states in the areas of APRN
licensure/authority to practice and regulation;
(d)  new practice modalities and technology make compliance with individual
state APRN licensure/authority to practice laws difficult and complex;
(e)  the current system of duplicative APRN licensure/authority to practice
for APRNs practicing in multiple states is cumbersome and redundant to both
APRNs and states;
(f)  uniformity of APRN requirements throughout the states promotes public
safety and public health benefits; and
(g)  access to APRN services increases the public's access to health care,
particularly in rural and underserved areas.
(2)  The general purposes of this compact are to:
(a)  facilitate the states' responsibilities to protect the public's health
and safety;
(b)  ensure and encourage the cooperation of party states in the areas of APRN
licensure/authority to practice and regulation, including promotion of uniform
licensure requirements;
(c)  facilitate the exchange of information between party states in the areas
of APRN regulation, investigation, and adverse actions;
(d)  promote compliance with the laws governing APRN practice in each
jurisdiction; and
(e)  invest all party states with the authority to hold an APRN accountable
for meeting all state practice laws in the state in which the patient is
located at the time care is rendered through the mutual recognition of party
state licenses.
ARTICLE II
Definitions
As used in this compact:
(1)  "Advanced practice registered nurse" or "APRN" means a nurse anesthetist,
nurse practitioner, nurse midwife, or clinical nurse specialist to the extent
a party state licenses or grants authority to practice in that APRN role and
title.
(2)  "Adverse action" means a home or remote state disciplinary action.
(3)  "Alternative program" means a voluntary, nondisciplinary monitoring
program approved by a licensing board.
(4)  "APRN Licensure/Authority to Practice" means the regulatory mechanism
used by a party state to grant legal authority to practice as an APRN.
(5)  "APRN Uniform Licensure/Authority to Practice Requirements" means those
minimum uniform licensure, education, and examination requirements as agreed
to by the compact administrators and adopted by licensing boards for the
recognized APRN role and title.
(6)  "Coordinated licensure information system" means an integrated process
for collecting, storing, and sharing information on APRN licensure/authority
to practice and enforcement activities related to APRN licensure/authority to
practice laws, which is administered by a nonprofit organization composed of
and controlled by state licensing boards.
(7)  "Current significant investigative information" means:
(a)  investigative information that a licensing board, after a preliminary
inquiry that includes notification and an opportunity for the APRN to respond
if required by state law, has reason to believe is not groundless and, if
proved true, would indicate more than a minor infraction; or
(b)  investigative information that indicates that the APRN represents an
immediate threat to public health and safety regardless of whether the APRN
has been notified and had an opportunity to respond.
(8)  "Home state" means the party state that is the APRN's primary state of
residence.
(9)  "Home state action" means any administrative, civil, equitable, or
criminal action permitted by the home state's laws which are imposed on an
APRN by the home state's licensing board or other authority including actions
against an individual's license/authority to practice such as: revocation,
suspension, probation, or any other action which affects an APRN's
authorization to practice.
(10)  "Licensing board" means a party state's regulatory body responsible for
issuing APRN licensure/authority to practice.
(11) (a)  "Multistate advanced practice privilege" means current authority
from a remote state permitting an APRN to practice in that state in the same
role and title as the APRN is licensed/authorized to practice in the home
state to the extent that the remote state laws recognize such APRN role and
title.
(b)  A remote state has the authority, in accordance with existing state due
process laws, to take actions against the APRN's privilege, including
revocation, suspension, probation, or any other action that affects an APRN's
multistate privilege to practice.
(12)  "Party state" means any state that has adopted this compact.
(13)  "Prescriptive authority" means the legal authority to prescribe
medications and devices as defined by party state laws.
(14)  "Remote state" means a party state, other than the home state:
(a)  where the patient is located at the time APRN care is provided; or
(b)  in the case of APRN practice not involving a patient, in the party state
where the recipient of APRN practice is located.
(15)  "Remote state action" means:
(a)  any administrative, civil, equitable, or criminal action permitted by a
remote state's laws which are imposed on an APRN by the remote state's
licensing board or other authority, including actions against an individual's
multistate advanced practice privilege in the remote state; and
(b)  cease and desist and other injunctive or equitable orders issued by
remote states or the licensing boards of those states.
(16)  "State" means a state, territory, or possession of the United States.
(17) (a)  "State practice laws" means a party state's laws and regulations
that govern APRN practice, define the scope of advanced nursing practice
including prescriptive authority, and create the methods and grounds for
imposing discipline.
(b)  State practice laws do not include the requirements necessary to obtain
and retain APRN licensure/authority to practice as an APRN, except for
qualifications or requirements of the home state.
(18)  "Unencumbered" means that a state has no current disciplinary action
against an APRN's license/authority to practice.
ARTICLE III
General Provisions and Jurisdiction
(1)  All party states shall participate in the Nurse Licensure Compact for
registered nurses and licensed practical/vocational nurses in order to enter
into the APRN Compact.
(2)  No state shall enter the APRN Compact until the state adopts, at a
minimum, the APRN Uniform Licensure/Authority to Practice Requirements for
each APRN role and title recognized by the state seeking to enter the APRN
Compact.
(3) (a)  APRN Licensure/Authority to practice issued by a home state to a
resident in that state will be recognized by each party state as authorizing a
multistate advanced practice privilege to the extent that the role and title
are recognized by each party state.
(b)  To obtain or retain APRN licensure/authority to practice as an APRN, an
applicant must meet the home state's qualifications for authority or renewal
of authority as well as all other applicable state laws.
(4) (a)  The APRN multistate advanced practice privilege does not include
prescriptive authority, and does not affect any requirements imposed by states
to grant to an APRN initial and continuing prescriptive authority according to
state practice laws.
(b)  A party state may grant prescriptive authority to an individual on the
basis of a multistate advanced practice privilege to the extent permitted by
state practice laws.
(5) (a)  A party state may, in accordance with state due process laws, limit
or revoke the multistate advanced practice privilege in the party state and
may take any other necessary actions under the party state's applicable laws
to protect the health and safety of the party state's citizens.
(b)  If a party state takes action, the party state shall promptly notify the
administrator of the coordinated licensure information system.
(c)  The administrator of the coordinated licensure information system shall
promptly notify the home state of any such actions by remote states.
(6) (a)  An APRN practicing in a party state must comply with the state
practice laws of the state in which the patient is located at the time care is
provided.
(b)  The APRN practice includes patient care and all advanced nursing practice
defined by the party state's practice laws.
(c)  The APRN practice will subject an APRN to the jurisdiction of the
licensing board, the courts, and the laws of the party state.
(7) (a)  Individuals not residing in a party state may apply for APRN
licensure/authority to practice as an APRN under the laws of a party state.
(b)  The authority to practice granted to these individuals will not be
recognized as granting the privilege to practice as an APRN in any other party
state unless explicitly agreed to by that party state.
ARTICLE IV
Applications for APRN Licensure/Authority to Practice in a Party State
(1) (a)  Once an application for APRN licensure/authority to practice is
submitted, a party state shall ascertain, through the Coordinated Licensure
Information System, whether:
(i)  the applicant has held or is the holder of a nursing license/authority to
practice issued by another state;
(ii)  the applicant has had a history of previous disciplinary action by any
state;
(iii)  an encumbrance exists on any license/authority to practice; and
(iv)  any other adverse action by any other state has been taken against a
license/authority to practice.
(b)  This information may be used in approving or denying an application for
APRN licensure/authority to practice.
(2)  An APRN in a party state shall hold APRN licensure/authority to practice
in only one party state at a time, issued by the home state.
(3) (a)  An APRN who intends to change primary state of residence may apply
for APRN licensure/authority to practice in the new home state in advance of
the change.
(b)  New licensure/authority to practice will not be issued by a party state
until after an APRN provides evidence of change in primary state of residence
satisfactory to the new home state's licensing board.
(4)  When an APRN changes primary state of residence by:
(a)  moving between two party states, and obtains APRN licensure/authority to
practice from the new home state, the APRN licensure/authority to practice
from the former home state is no longer valid;
(b)  moving from a nonparty state to a party state, and obtains APRN
licensure/authority to practice from the new home state, the individual state
license issued by the nonparty state is not affected and will remain in full
force if so provided by the laws of the nonparty state;
(c)  moving from a party state to a nonparty state, the APRN
licensure/authority to practice issued by the prior home state converts to an
individual state license, valid only in the former home state, without the
multistate licensure privilege to practice in other party states.
ARTICLE V
Adverse Actions
In addition to the general provisions described in Article III, the following
provisions apply:
(1) (a)  The licensing board of a remote state shall promptly report to the
administrator of the coordinated licensure information system any remote state
actions including the factual and legal basis for the action, if known.
(b)  The licensing board of a remote state shall also promptly report any
significant, current investigative information yet to result in a remote state
action.
(c)  The administrator of the coordinated licensure information system shall
promptly notify the home state of any such reports.
(2) (a)  The licensing board of a party state shall have the authority to
complete any pending investigations for an APRN who changes primary state of
residence during the course of those investigations.
(b)  It shall also have the authority to take appropriate action, and shall
promptly report the conclusions of the investigations to the administrator of
the coordinated licensure information system.
(c)  The administrator of the coordinated licensure information system shall
promptly notify the new home state of the actions.
(3) (a)  A remote state may take adverse action affecting the multistate
advanced practice privilege to practice within that party state.
(b)  Only the home state shall have the power to impose adverse action against
the APRN licensure/authority to practice issued by the home state.
(4) (a)  For purposes of imposing adverse action, the licensing board of the
home state shall give the same priority and effect to reported conduct
received from a remote state as it would if that conduct had occurred within
the home state.
(b)  In so doing, it shall apply its own state laws to determine appropriate
action.
(5)  The home state may take adverse action based on the factual findings of
the remote state, so long as each state follows its own procedures for
imposing the adverse action.
(6) (a)  Nothing in this compact shall override a party state's decision that
participation in an alternative program may be used in lieu of adverse action
and that the participation shall remain nonpublic if required by the party
state's laws.
(b)  Party states must require APRNs who enter any alternative programs to
agree not to practice in any other party state during the term of the
alternative program without prior authorization from the other party state.
(7) (a)  All home state licensing board disciplinary orders, agreed or
otherwise, which limit the scope of the APRN's practice or require monitoring
of the APRN as a condition of the order, shall include the requirements that
the APRN will limit the APRN's practice to the home state during the pendency
of the order.
(b)  This requirement may allow the APRN to practice in other party states
with prior written authorization from both the home state and party state
licensing boards.
ARTICLE VI
Additional Authorities Invested in Party State Licensing Boards
Notwithstanding any other powers, party state licensing boards shall have the
authority to:
(1)  if otherwise permitted by state law, recover from the affected APRN the
costs of investigations and disposition of cases resulting from any adverse
action taken against that APRN;
(2) (a)  issue subpoenas for both hearings and investigations, which require
the attendance and testimony of witnesses, and the production of evidence;
(b)  subpoenas issued by a licensing board in a party state for the attendance
and testimony of witnesses, and/or the production of evidence from another
party state shall be enforced in the latter state by any court of competent
jurisdiction, according to the practice and procedure of that court applicable
to subpoenas issued in proceedings pending before it;
(c)  the issuing authority shall pay any witness fees, travel expenses,
mileage, and other fees required by the service statutes of the state where
the witnesses or evidence or both are located;
(3)  issue cease and desist orders to limit or revoke an APRN's privilege or
licensure/authority to practice in their state; and
(4)  promulgate uniform rules and regulations as provided for in Article VIII
(3).
ARTICLE VII
Coordinated Licensure Information System
(1) (a)  All party states shall participate in a cooperative effort to create
a coordinated database of all APRNs.
(b)  This system will include information on the APRN licensure/authority to
practice and disciplinary history of each APRN, as contributed by party
states, to assist in the coordination of APRN licensure/authority to practice
and enforcement efforts.
(2)  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all party states' licensing
boards shall promptly report adverse actions, actions against multistate
advanced practice privileges, any current significant investigative
information yet to result in adverse action, denials of applications, and the
reasons for those denials to the coordinated licensure information system.
(3)  Current significant investigative information shall be transmitted
through the coordinated licensure information system only to party state
licensing boards.
(4)  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all party states' licensing
boards contributing information to the coordinated licensure information
system may designate information that may not be shared with nonparty states
or disclosed to other entities or individuals without the express permission
of the contributing state.
(5)  Any personally identifiable information obtained by a party state's
licensing board from the coordinated licensure information system may not be
shared with nonparty states or disclosed to other entities or individuals
except to the extent permitted by the laws of the party state contributing the
information.
(6)  Any information contributed to the coordinated licensure information
system that is subsequently required to be expunged by the laws of the party
state contributing that information shall also be expunged from the
coordinated licensure information system.
(7)  The compact administrators, acting jointly with each other and in
consultation with the administrator of the coordinated licensure information
system, shall formulate necessary and proper procedures for the
identification, collection, and exchange of information under this compact.
ARTICLE VIII
Compact Administration and Interchange of Information
(1)  The head of the licensing board, or his or her designee, of each party
state shall be the administrator of this compact for his or her state.
(2)  The compact administrator of each party state shall furnish to the
compact administrator of each other party state any information and documents
including, but not limited to, a uniform data set of investigations,
identifying information, licensure data, and disclosable alternative program
participation information to facilitate the administration of this compact.
(3) (a)  Compact administrators shall have the authority to develop uniform
rules to facilitate and coordinate implementation of this compact.
(b)  These uniform rules shall be adopted by party states, under the authority
invested under Article VI (4).
ARTICLE IX
Immunity
(1)  No party state or the officers or employees or agents of a party state's
licensing board who acts in accordance with the provisions of this compact
shall be liable on account of any act or omission in good faith while engaged
in the performance of their duties under this compact.
(2)  Good faith in this article shall not include willful misconduct, gross
negligence, or recklessness.
ARTICLE X
Entry into Force, Withdrawal, and Amendment
(1) (a)  This compact shall enter into force and become effective as to any
state when it has been enacted into the laws of that state.
(b)  Any party state may withdraw from this compact by enacting a statute
repealing the compact, but no withdrawal shall take effect until six months
after the withdrawing state has given notice of the withdrawal to the
executive heads of all other party states.
(2)  No withdrawal shall affect the validity or applicability by the licensing
boards of states remaining party to the compact of any report of adverse
action occurring prior to the withdrawal.
(3)  Nothing contained in this compact shall be construed to invalidate or
prevent any APRN licensure/authority to practice agreement or other
cooperative arrangement between a party state and a nonparty state that is
made in accordance with the other provisions of this compact.
(4) (a)  This compact may be amended by the party states.
(b)  No amendment to this compact shall become effective and binding upon the
party states unless and until it is enacted into the laws of all party states.
ARTICLE XI
Construction and Severability
(1) (a)  This compact shall be liberally construed so as to effectuate its
purposes.
(b)  The provisions of this compact shall be severable and if any phrase,
clause, sentence, or provision of this compact is declared to be contrary to
the constitution of any party state or of the United States or its
applicability to any government, agency, person, or circumstance is held
invalid, the validity of the remainder of this compact and its applicability
to any government, agency, person, or circumstance shall not be affected
thereby.
(c)  If this compact shall be held contrary to the constitution of any state
party to the compact, the compact shall remain in full force and effect as to
the remaining party states and in full force and effect as to the party state
affected as to all severable matters.
(2) (a)  In the event party states find a need for settling disputes arising
under this compact, the party states may submit the issues in dispute to an
arbitration panel which will be comprised of an individual appointed by the
compact administrator in the home state, an individual appointed by the
compact administrator in the remote state involved, and an individual mutually
agreed upon by the compact administrators of all the party states involved in
the dispute.
(b)  The decision of a majority of the arbitrators shall be final and binding.
