58-9-303.   Term of license -- Expiration -- Renewal.
(1) (a)  The division shall issue each license under this chapter in
accordance with a two-year renewal cycle established by rule.
(b)  The division may by rule extend or shorten a renewal cycle by as much as
one year to stagger the renewal cycles it administers.
(2)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1), a person who has once held a license as a
funeral service intern and has not qualified for licensure as a funeral
service director may be issued a subsequent funeral service intern license for
only one additional two-year term upon the specific approval of the division
in collaboration with the board.
(3)  At the time of renewal, the funeral service director licensee shall show
satisfactory evidence of completion of continuing education as required under
Section 58-9-304.
(4)  Each license automatically expires on the expiration date shown on the
license unless the licensee renews it in accordance with Section 58-1-308.
(5) (a)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsections (5)(b) and (c), the
division may take action against the license of a funeral service
establishment that does not have a licensed funeral service director.
(b)  If a licensed funeral service director dies and leaves the funeral
service establishment as part of the assets of the funeral service director's
estate:
(i)  the personal representative of the funeral service director's estate may
operate the funeral service establishment under the license, or renewals of
the license, for not more than two years from the date of the funeral service
director's death without meeting the qualifications of an applicant and
without having a licensed funeral service director; but
(ii)  Subsection (5)(b)(i) does not allow an unlicensed person to perform a
function that requires performance by a funeral service director licensed
under this chapter.
(c)  If the funeral service director of a licensed funeral service
establishment terminates employment with the establishment, the establishment
has 90 days to hire a new licensed funeral service director before action may
be taken against the license under Subsection (5)(a).
