58-9-612.   Limitation of liability.

(1)  An authorizing agent who signs a cremation authorization form warrants the truthfulness of the facts set forth on the form, including:

(a)  the identity of the deceased whose remains are to be cremated; and

(b)  the authorizing agent's authority to order the cremation.

(2)  A funeral service establishment may rely upon the representations made by an authorizing agent under Subsection (1).

(3)  The authorizing agent is personally and individually liable for all damage resulting from a misstatement or misrepresentation made under Subsection (1).

(4) (a)  A funeral service establishment may arrange for the cremation of and cremate human remains upon receipt of a cremation authorization form signed by an authorizing agent.

(b)  A funeral service establishment that arranges a cremation, cremates human remains, or releases or disposes of cremated human remains pursuant to a cremation authorization form is not liable for an action it takes pursuant to that authorization.

(5)  A funeral service establishment is not responsible or liable for any valuables delivered to the establishment with human remains to be cremated.

(6)  A funeral service establishment may refuse to arrange for a cremation, to accept human remains for cremation, or to perform a cremation:

(a)  if the establishment is aware of a dispute concerning the cremation of the human remains and it has not received a court order or other suitable confirmation that the dispute has been resolved;

(b)  if the establishment has a reasonable basis for questioning any of the representations made by an authorizing agent; or

(c)  for any other lawful reason.

(7) (a)  If a funeral service establishment is aware of a dispute concerning the release or disposition of cremated remains in its possession, the establishment may refuse to release the remains until:

(i)  the dispute has been resolved; or

(ii)  it has received a court order authorizing the release or disposition of the remains.

(b)  A funeral service establishment is not liable for its refusal to release or dispose of cremated remains in accordance with this Subsection (7).



Enacted by Chapter 353, 2008 General Session

