78A-12-203.   Judicial performance evaluations.
(1)  Beginning with the 2012 judicial retention elections, the commission
shall prepare a performance evaluation for:
(a)  each judge in the third and fifth year of the judge's term if the judge
is not a justice of the Supreme Court; and
(b)  each justice of the Supreme Court in the third, seventh, and ninth year
of the justice's term.
(2)  Except as provided in Subsection (3), the performance evaluation for a
judge under Subsection (1) shall consider only:
(a)  the results of the judge's most recent judicial performance survey that
is conducted by a third party in accordance with Section 78A-12-204;
(b)  information concerning the judge's compliance with minimum performance
standards established in accordance with Section 78A-12-205;
(c)  courtroom observation;
(d)  the judge's judicial disciplinary record, if any;
(e)  public comment solicited by the commission;
(f)  information from an earlier judicial performance evaluation concerning
the judge; and
(g)  any other factor that the commission:
(i)  considers relevant to evaluating the judge's performance for the purpose
of a retention election; and
(ii)  establishes by rule.
(3)  The commission shall make rules concerning the conduct of courtroom
observation under Subsection (2), which shall include the following:
(a)  an indication of who may perform the courtroom observation;
(b)  a determination of whether the courtroom observation shall be made in
person or may be made by electronic means; and
(c)  a list of principles and standards used to evaluate the behavior
observed.
(4) (a)  As part of the evaluation conducted under this section, the
commission shall determine whether to recommend that the voters retain the
judge.
(b) (i)  If a judge meets the minimum performance standards established in
accordance with Section 78A-12-205 there is a rebuttable presumption that the
commission will recommend the voters retain the judge.
(ii)  If a judge fails to meet the minimum performance standards established
in accordance with Section 78A-12-205 there is a rebuttable presumption that
the commission will recommend the voters not retain the judge.
(c)  The commission may elect to make no recommendation on whether the voters
should retain a judge if the commission determines that the information
concerning the judge is insufficient to make a recommendation.
(d) (i)  If the commission deviates from a presumption for or against
recommending the voters retain a judge or elects to make no recommendation on
whether the voters should retain a judge, the commission shall provide a
detailed explanation of the reason for that deviation or election in the
commission's report under Section 78A-12-206.
(ii)  If the commission makes no recommendation because of a tie vote, the
commission shall note that fact in the commission's report.
(5) (a)  Before considering the judicial performance evaluation of any judge,
the commission shall notify the judge of the date and time of any commission
meeting during which the judge's judicial performance evaluation will be
considered.
(b)  The commission shall allow a judge who is the subject of a judicial
performance evaluation to appear and speak at any commission meeting, except a
closed meeting, during which the judge's judicial performance evaluation is
considered.
(c)  The commission may meet in a closed meeting to discuss a judge's judicial
performance evaluation by complying with Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public
Meetings Act.
(6) (a)  The commission shall compile a midterm report of its judicial
performance evaluation of a judge.
(b)  The midterm report of a judicial performance evaluation shall include
information that the commission considers appropriate for purposes of judicial
self-improvement.
(c)  The report shall be provided to the evaluated judge and the presiding
judge of the district in which the evaluated judge serves.  If the evaluated
judge is the presiding judge, the midterm report shall be provided to the
chair of the board of judges for the court level on which the evaluated judge
serves.
(7)  The commission may make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, as necessary to administer the evaluation
required by this section.
