78A-12-206.   Publication of the judicial performance evaluation.
(1) (a)  The commission shall compile a retention report of its judicial
performance evaluation of a judge.
(b)  The report of a judicial performance evaluation nearest the judge's next
scheduled retention election shall be provided to the judge at least 45 days
before the last day on which the judge may file a declaration of the judge's
candidacy in the retention election.
(c)  A report prepared in accordance with Subsection (1)(b) and information
obtained in connection with the evaluation become a public record under Title
63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act, on the day
following the last day on which the judge who is the subject of the report may
file a declaration of the judge's candidacy in the judge's scheduled retention
election if the judge declares the judge's candidacy for the retention
election.
(d)  A report that is not public under Subsection (1)(c) is a protected record
under Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act.
(2)  A judge who is the subject of a retention report under this section,
within 15 days of receiving a copy of the commission's report under Subsection
(1)(b), may:
(a)  provide a written response to the report; and
(b)  request an interview with the commission for the purpose of addressing
the report.
(3) (a)  After receiving a response from a judge in any form allowed by
Subsection (2), the commission may meet and reconsider its decision to
recommend the judge not be retained.
(b)  If the commission does not change its decision to recommend the judge not
be retained, the judge may provide a written statement, not to exceed 100
words, that shall be included in the commission's report.
(4)  The retention report of a judicial performance evaluation shall include:
(a)  the results of the judicial performance survey, in both raw and summary
form;
(b)  information concerning the judge's compliance with the minimum
performance standards;
(c)  information concerning any formal or informal discipline against a judge
that is not subject to restrictions on disclosure under Title 78A, Chapter 11,
Judicial Conduct Commission;
(d)  a narrative concerning the judge's performance;
(e)  the commission's recommendation concerning whether the judge should be
retained, or the statement required of the commission if it declines to make a
recommendation;
(f)  the number of votes for and against the commission's recommendation; and
(g)  any other information the commission considers appropriate to include in
the report.
(5) (a)  The commission may not include in its retention report specific
information concerning an earlier judicial performance evaluation.
(b)  The commission may refer to information from an earlier judicial
performance evaluation concerning the judge in the commission's report only if
the reference is in general terms.
(6)  The retention report of the commission's judicial performance evaluation
shall be made publicly available on an Internet website.
(7)  The commission may make the report of the judicial performance evaluation
immediately preceding the judge's retention election publicly available
through other means within budgetary constraints.
(8)  The commission shall provide a summary of the judicial performance
evaluation for each judge to the lieutenant governor for publication in the
voter information pamphlet in the manner required by Title 20A, Chapter 7,
Issues Submitted to the Voters.
(9)  The commission may also provide any information collected during the
course of a judge's judicial performance evaluation immediately preceding the
judge's retention election to the public to the extent that information is not
otherwise subject to restrictions on disclosure.
(10)  The commission shall provide the Judicial Council with:
(a)  the judicial performance survey results for each judge; and
(b)  a copy of the retention report of each judicial performance evaluation.
(11)  The Judicial Council shall provide information obtained concerning a
judge under Subsection (10) to the subject judge's presiding judge, if any.
