4-30-2.   Livestock Market Committee created -- Composition -- Terms --
Removal -- Compensation -- Duties.
(1)  There is created a Livestock Market Committee which consists of the
following seven members appointed to a four-year term of office by the
commissioner:
(a)  one member recommended by the livestock market operators in the state;
(b)  one member recommended by the Utah Cattlemen's Association;
(c)  one member recommended by the Utah Dairymen's Association;
(d)  one member recommended by the Utah Woolgrowers' Association;
(e)  one member recommended by the horse industry;
(f)  one member recommended by the Utah Farm Bureau Federation; and
(g)  one member recommended by the Utah Farmers Union.
(2)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (1), the commissioner
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that
approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.
(3)  No more than four members shall be members of the same political party.
(4) (a)  The commissioner may remove a member of the committee at the request
of the association or group which recommended the member's appointment.
(b)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(5)  The Livestock Market Committee shall elect a chair from its membership,
who shall serve for a term of office of two years, but may be reelected for
subsequent terms.
(6) (a)  The chair is responsible for the call and conduct of meetings.
(b)  Four members constitute a quorum for the transaction of official
business.
(7) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(8)  The Livestock Market Committee acts as advisor to the department with
respect to the administration and enforcement of this chapter and makes
recommendations necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter to the
commissioner.
