4-30-7.6.   Custodial accounts for trust funds.
(1) (a)  Each payment that a livestock buyer makes to a livestock market
selling on commission is a trust fund.
(b)  Funds deposited in custodial accounts are trust funds.
(2)  Each livestock market engaged in selling livestock on a commission or
agency basis shall establish and maintain a separate bank account designated
as "custodial account for shippers' proceeds" or some similar identifying
designation, to disclose that the depositor is acting as a fiduciary and that
the funds in the account are trust funds.
(3) (a)  The livestock market shall deposit in its custodial account before
the close of the next business day after the livestock is sold:
(i)  the proceeds from the sale of the livestock that have been collected; and
(ii)  an amount equal to the proceeds receivable from the sale of livestock
that are due from:
(A)  the livestock market;
(B)  any owner, officer, or employee of the livestock market; and
(C)  any buyer to whom the livestock market has extended credit.
(b)  The livestock market shall thereafter deposit in the custodial account
all proceeds collected until the account has been reimbursed in full, and
shall, before the close of the seventh day following the sale of livestock,
deposit an amount equal to all the remaining proceeds receivable whether or
not the proceeds have been collected by the livestock market.
(4)  The custodial account shall be drawn on only for payment of:
(a)  the net proceeds to the consignor or shipper, or to any person that the
livestock market knows is entitled to payment;
(b)  to pay lawful charges against the consignment of livestock which the
market agency shall, in its capacity as agent, be required to pay; and
(c)  to obtain any sums due the livestock market as compensation for its
services.
(5) (a)  Each livestock market shall keep accounts and records that will
disclose at all times the handling of funds in the custodial account.
(b)  Accounts and records shall at all times disclose the name of the
consignors and the amount due and payable to each from funds in the custodial
account.
(6)  The custodial account shall be established and maintained in a bank whose
deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
