41-6a-212.   Emergency vehicles -- Policy regarding vehicle pursuits -- Applicability of traffic law to highway work vehicles -- Exemptions.

(1)  Subject to Subsections (2) through (5), the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle may exercise the privileges granted under this section when:

(a)  responding to an emergency call;

(b)  in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law; or

(c)  responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm.

(2)  The operator of an authorized emergency vehicle may:

(a)  park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;

(b)  proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;

(c)  exceed the maximum speed limits, unless prohibited by a local highway authority under Section 41-6a-208; or

(d)  disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in specified directions.

(3) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (3)(b), privileges granted under this section to the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle, who is not involved in a vehicle pursuit, apply only when:

(i)  the operator of the vehicle sounds an audible signal under Section 41-6a-1625; or

(ii)  uses a visual signal with emergency lights in accordance with rules made under Section 41-6a-1601, which is visible from in front of the vehicle.

(b)  An operator of an authorized emergency vehicle may exceed the maximum speed limit when engaged in normal patrolling activities with the purpose of identifying and apprehending violators.

(4)  Privileges granted under this section to the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle involved in any vehicle pursuit apply only when:

(a)  the operator of the vehicle:

(i)  sounds an audible signal under Section 41-6a-1625; and

(ii)  uses a visual signal with emergency lights in accordance with rules made under Section 41-6a-1601, which is visible from in front of the vehicle;

(b)  the public agency employing the operator of the vehicle has, in effect, a written policy which describes the manner and circumstances in which any vehicle pursuit should be conducted and terminated;

(c)  the operator of the vehicle has been trained in accordance with the written policy described in Subsection (4)(b); and

(d)  the pursuit policy of the public agency is in conformance with standards established under Subsection (5).

(5)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the Department of Public Safety shall make rules providing minimum standards for all emergency pursuit policies that are adopted by public agencies authorized to operate emergency pursuit vehicles.

(6)  The privileges granted under this section do not relieve the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle of the duty to act as a reasonably prudent emergency vehicle operator in like circumstances.

(7)  Except for Sections 41-6a-210, 41-6a-502, and 41-6a-528, this chapter does not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in work on the surface of a highway.



Amended by Chapter 382, 2008 General Session

