41-6a-401.   Accident involving property damage -- Duties of operator, occupant, and owner -- Exchange of information -- Notification of law enforcement -- Penalties.

(1)  As used in this section, "reason to believe" means information from which a reasonable person would believe that the person may have been involved in an accident.

(2) (a)  The operator of a vehicle who has reason to believe that the operator may have been involved in an accident resulting only in damage to another vehicle or other property:

(i)  may move the vehicle as soon as possible off the roadway or freeway main lines, shoulders, medians, or adjacent areas to the nearest safe location on an exit ramp shoulder, a frontage road, the nearest suitable cross street, or other suitable location that does not obstruct traffic; and

(ii)  shall remain at the scene of the accident or the location described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) until the operator has fulfilled the requirements of this section.

(b)  Moving a vehicle as required under Subsection (2)(a)(i) does not affect the determination of fault for an accident.

(c)  If the operator has reason to believe that the operator may have been involved in an accident resulting in damage to another vehicle or other property only after leaving the scene of the accident, the operator shall immediately comply as nearly as possible with the requirements of this section.

(3)  Except as provided under Subsection (6), if the vehicle or other property is operated, occupied, or attended by any person or if the owner of the vehicle or property is present, the operator of the vehicle involved in the accident shall:

(a)  give to the persons involved:

(i)  the operator's name, address, and the registration number of the vehicle being operated; and

(ii)  the name of the insurance provider covering the vehicle being operated including the phone number of the agent or provider; and

(b)  upon request and if available, exhibit the operator's license to:

(i)  any investigating peace officer present;

(ii)  the operator, occupant of, or person attending the vehicle or other property damaged in the accident; and

(iii)  the owner of property damaged in the accident, if present.

(4)  The operator of a vehicle involved in an accident shall immediately and by the quickest means of communication available give notice or cause to give notice of the accident to the nearest office of a law enforcement agency if the accident resulted in property damage to an apparent extent of $1,500 or more.

(5)  Except as provided under Subsection (6), if the vehicle or other property damaged in the accident is unattended, the operator of the vehicle involved in the accident shall:

(a)  locate and notify the operator or owner of the vehicle or the owner of other property damaged in the accident of the operator's name, address, and the registration number of the vehicle causing the damage; or

(b)  attach securely in a conspicuous place on the vehicle or other property a written notice giving the operator's name, address, and the registration number of the vehicle causing the damage.

(6)  The operator of a vehicle that provides the information required under this section to an investigating peace officer at the scene of the accident is exempt from providing the information to other persons required under this section.

(7) (a)  A person who violates the provisions of Subsection (2) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

(b)  A person who violates the provision of Subsection (5) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

