41-6a-402.   Accident reports -- Duty of operator and investigative officer
to file.
(1)  The department may require any operator of a vehicle involved in an
accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or total property
damage to the apparent extent of $1,000 or more to file within ten days after
the request:
(a)  a report of the accident to the department in a manner specified by the
department; and
(b)  a supplemental report when the original report is insufficient in the
opinion of the department.
(2)  The department may require witnesses of accidents to file reports to the
department.
(3) (a)  An accident report is not required under this section from any person
who is physically incapable of making a report, during the period of
incapacity.
(b)  If the operator is physically incapable of making an accident report
under this section and the operator is not the owner of the vehicle, the owner
of the vehicle involved in the accident shall within 15 days after becoming
aware of the accident make the report required of the operator under this
section.
(4) (a)  The department shall, upon request, supply to law enforcement
agencies, justice court judges, sheriffs, garages, and other appropriate
agencies or individuals forms for accident reports required under this part.
(b)  A request for an accident report form under Subsection (4)(a) shall be
made in a manner specified by the division.
(c)  The accident reports shall:
(i)  provide sufficient detail to disclose the cause, conditions then
existing, and the persons and vehicles involved in the accident; and
(ii)  contain all of the information required that is available.
(5) (a)  A person shall file an accident report if required under this
section.
(b)  The department shall suspend the license or permit to operate a motor
vehicle and any nonresident operating privileges of any person failing to file
an accident report in accordance with this section.
(c)  The suspension under Subsection (5)(b) shall be in effect until the
report has been filed except that the department may extend the suspension not
to exceed 30 days.
(6) (a) A peace officer who, in the regular course of duty, investigates a
motor vehicle accident described under Subsection (1) shall file the original
or an electronic copy of the report of the accident with the department within
ten days after completing the investigation.
(b)  The accident report shall be made either at the time of and at the scene
of the accident or later by interviewing participants or witnesses.
(7)  The accident reports required to be filed with the department under this
section and the information in them are protected and confidential and may be
disclosed only as provided in Section 41-6a-404.
(8) (a)  In addition to the reports required under this part, a local highway
authority may, by ordinance, require that for each accident that occurs within
its jurisdiction, the operator of a vehicle involved in an accident, or the
owner of the vehicle involved in an accident, shall file with the local law
enforcement agency a report of the accident or a copy of any report required
to be filed with the department under this part.
(b)  All reports are for the confidential use of the municipal department and
are subject to the provisions of Section 41-6a-404.
