41-6a-403.   Vehicle accidents -- Investigation and report of operator
security -- Agency action if no security -- Surrender of plates -- Penalties.
(1) (a)  Upon request of a peace officer investigating an accident involving a
motor vehicle, the operator of the motor vehicle shall provide evidence of the
owner's or operator's security required under Section 41-12a-301.
(b)  The evidence of owner's or operator's security includes information
specified under Section 41-12a-303.2.
(2)  The peace officer shall record on a form approved by the department:
(a)  the information provided by the operator;
(b)  whether the operator provided insufficient or no information;
(c)  whether the officer finds reasonable cause to believe that any
information given is not correct; and
(d)  whether other information available to the peace officer indicates that
owner's or operator's security is in effect.
(3)  The peace officer shall deposit all completed forms with the peace
officer's law enforcement agency, which shall forward the forms to the
department no later than ten days after receipt.
(4) (a)  The department shall within ten days of receipt of the forms from the
law enforcement agency take action as follows:
(i)  if the operator provided no information under Subsection (1) and other
information available to the peace officer does not indicate that owner's or
operator's security is in effect, the department shall take direct action
under Subsection 53-3-221(13); or
(ii)  if the peace officer noted or the department determines that there is
reasonable cause to believe that the information given under Subsection (1) is
not correct, the department shall contact directly the insurance company or
other provider of security as described in Section 41-12a-303.2 and request
verification of the accuracy of the information submitted as of the date of
the accident.
(b)  The department may require the verification under Subsection (4)(a)(ii)
to be in a form specified by the department.
(c)  The insurance company or other provider of security shall return the
verification to the department within 30 days of receipt of the request.
(d)  If the department does not receive verification within 35 days after
sending the request, or within the 35 days receives notice that the
information was not correct, the department shall take action under Subsection
53-3-221(13).
(5) (a)  The owner of a vehicle with unexpired license plates for which
security is not provided as required under this chapter shall return the
plates for the vehicle to the Motor Vehicle Division unless specifically
permitted by statute to retain them.
(b)  If the owner fails to return the plates as required, the plates shall be
confiscated under Section 53-3-226.
(6)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the department may make rules for the enforcement of this section.
(7)  A person is guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and shall be fined not less
than $100, who:
(a)  when requested to provide security information under Subsection (1), or
Section 41-12a-303.2, provides false information;
(b)  falsely represents to the department that security required under this
chapter is in effect; or
(c)  sells a vehicle to avoid the penalties of this section as applicable
either to himself or a third party.
