41-6a-602.   Speed limits established on state highways.

(1) (a)  The Department of Transportation shall determine the reasonable and safe speed limit for each highway or section of highway under its jurisdiction.

(b)  For each highway or section of highway, each speed limit shall be based on a traffic engineering and safety study consistent with the requirements and recommendations in the most current version of the "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices."

(c)  The traffic engineering and safety studies shall include:

(i)  the design speed;

(ii)  prevailing vehicle speeds;

(iii)  accident history;

(iv)  highway, traffic, and roadside conditions; and

(v)  other highway safety factors.

(2)  In addition to the provisions of Subsection (1), the Department of Transportation may establish different speed limits on a highway or section of highway based on:

(a)  time of day;

(b)  highway construction;

(c)  type of vehicle;

(d)  weather conditions; and

(e)  other highway safety factors.

(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(b) and (c), a posted speed limit may not exceed 65 miles per hour.

(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(c), a posted speed limit on a freeway or other limited access highway may not exceed 75 miles per hour.

(c) (i)  The Department of Transportation may establish a posted speed limit on a freeway or other limited access highway that exceeds the maximum speed limit in Subsection (3)(b) if the speed limit is based on a highway traffic engineering and safety study and located on:

(A)  a portion of Interstate 15 that is between milepost 244 and milepost 24 or between milepost 366 and the Utah-Idaho state line;

(B)  a portion of Interstate 80 that is between milepost 99 and the Utah-Nevada state line; or

(C)  a portion of Interstate 84 that is between the Tremonton Interchange and the Utah-Idaho state line.

(ii)  If the Department of Transportation establishes a posted speed limit that exceeds the limit under Subsection (3)(b), the Department of Transportation shall evaluate the results and impacts of increasing a speed limit under this Subsection (3)(c).

(iii)  The Department of Transportation shall report the findings of an evaluation conducted under Subsection (3)(c)(ii) to the Transportation Interim Committee no later than one year after a speed limit has been imposed under this Subsection (3)(c).

(d)  This Subsection (3) is an exception to the provisions of Subsections (1) and (2).

(4)  When establishing or changing a speed limit, the Department of Transportation shall consult with the following entities prior to erecting or changing a speed limit sign:

(a)  the county for state highways in an unincorporated area of the county;

(b)  the municipality for state highways within the municipality's incorporated area;

(c)  the Department of Public Safety; and

(d)  the Transportation Commission.

(5)  The speed limit is effective when appropriate signs giving notice are erected along the highway or section of the highway.



Amended by Chapter 268, 2013 General Session

