41-6a-902.   Right-of-way -- Stop or yield signals -- Yield -- Collisions at intersections or junctions of roadways -- Evidence.

(1)  Preferential right-of-way may be indicated by stop signs or yield signs under Section 41-6a-906.

(2) (a)  Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer, every operator of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop:

(i)  at a clearly marked stop line;

(ii)  before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection if there is not a clearly marked stop line; or

(iii)  at a point nearest the intersecting roadway where the operator has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it if there is not a clearly marked stop line or a crosswalk.

(b)  After having stopped at a stop sign, the operator of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard.

(c)  The operator of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians within an adjacent crosswalk.

(3) (a)  The operator of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall:

(i)  slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions; and

(ii)  if required for safety, stop as provided under Subsection (2).

(b) (i)  After slowing or stopping at a yield sign, the operator of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the operator is moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.

(ii)  The operator of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall yield to pedestrians within an adjacent crosswalk. 

(4) (a)  A collision is prima facie evidence of an operator's failure to yield the right-of-way after passing a yield sign without stopping if the operator is involved in a collision:

(i)  with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways; or

(ii)  with a pedestrian at an adjacent crosswalk.

(b)  A collision under Subsection (4)(a) is not considered negligence per se in determining liability for the accident.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 2, 2005 General Session

