41-6a-904.   Approaching emergency vehicle -- Necessary signals -- Stationary emergency vehicle -- Duties of respective operators.

(1)  Except when otherwise directed by a peace officer, the operator of a vehicle, upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle using audible or visual signals under Section 41-6a-212 or 41-6a-1625, shall:

(a)  yield the right-of-way and immediately move to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the highway, clear of any intersection; and

(b)  then stop and remain stopped until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed.

(2)  The operator of a vehicle, upon approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle that is displaying alternately flashing red, red and white, or red and blue lights, shall:

(a)  reduce the speed of the vehicle;

(b)  provide as much space as practical to the stationary authorized emergency vehicle; and

(c)  if traveling in a lane adjacent to the stationary authorized emergency vehicle and if practical, with due regard to safety and traffic conditions, make a lane change into a lane not adjacent to the authorized emergency vehicle.

(3)  The operator of a vehicle, upon approaching a stationary tow truck or highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying flashing amber lights, shall:

(a)  reduce the speed of the vehicle; and

(b)  provide as much space as practical to the stationary tow truck or highway maintenance vehicle.

(4)  This section does not relieve the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle, tow truck, or highway maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with regard for the safety of all persons using the highway.

(5) (a) (i)  In addition to the penalties prescribed under Section 41-6a-202, a person who violates this section shall attend a four hour live classroom defensive driving course approved by:

(A)  the Driver License Division; or

(B)  a court in this state.

(ii)  Upon completion of the four hour live classroom course under Subsection (5)(a)(i), the person shall provide to the Driver License Division a certificate of attendance of the classroom course.

(b) The Driver License Division shall suspend a person's driver license for a period of 90 days if the person:

(i)  violates a provision of Subsections (1) through (3); and

(ii)  fails to meet the requirements of Subsection (5)(a)(i) within 90 days of sentencing for or pleading guilty to a violation of this section.

(c)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (5)(b), the Driver License Division shall shorten the 90-day suspension period imposed under Subsection (5)(b) effective immediately upon receiving a certificate of attendance of the four hour live classroom course required under Subsection (5)(a)(i) if the certificate of attendance is received prior to completion of the suspension period.

(d)  A person whose license is suspended under Subsection (5)(b) is required to pay the license reinstatement fees under Subsection 53-3-105(23), including a person whose suspension is shortened as described under Subsection (5)(c).

(6)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the Driver License Division shall make rules to implement the provisions of this part.

