41-6a-1116.   Electric personal assistive mobility devices -- Conflicting
provisions -- Restrictions -- Penalties.
(1) (a)  Except as otherwise provided in this section, an electric personal
assistive mobility device is subject to the provisions under this chapter for
a bicycle, moped, or a motor-driven cycle.
(b)  For a person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device,
the following provisions do not apply:
(i)  seating positions under Section 41-6a-1501;
(ii)  required lights, horns, and mirrors under Section 41-6a-1506;
(iii)  entitlement to full use of a lane under Subsection 41-6a-1502(1); and
(iv)  driver licensing requirements under Section 53-3-202.
(2)  A person under 15 years of age may not operate an electric personal
assistive mobility device using the motor unless the person is under the
direct supervision of the person's parent or guardian.
(3)  A person may not operate an electric personal assistive mobility device:
(a)  on a highway consisting of a total of four or more lanes designated for
regular vehicular traffic;
(b)  on a highway with a posted speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour; or
(c)  that has been structurally or mechanically altered from the original
manufacturer's design.
(4)  An owner may not authorize or knowingly permit a person to operate an
electric personal assistive mobility device in violation of this section.
(5)  A person may operate an electric personal assistive mobility device on a
sidewalk if the operation does not:
(a)  exceed a speed which is greater than is reasonable or prudent having due
regard for weather, visibility, and pedestrians; or
(b)  endanger the safety of other persons or property.
(6)  A person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device shall
yield to a pedestrian or other person using a mobility aid.
(7) (a)  An electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated on:
(i)  a path or trail designed for the use of a bicycle; or
(ii)  on a highway where a bicycle is allowed if the speed limit on the
highway does not exceed 35 miles per hour.
(b)  A person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device in an
area described in Subsection (7)(a)(i) or (ii) is subject to the laws
governing bicycles.
(8)  A person may operate an electric personal assistive mobility device at
night if the device is equipped with or the operator is wearing:
(a)  a lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 300 feet in front of the device; and
(b)  front, rear, and side reflectors.
(9)  A person may not operate an electric personal assistive mobility device
while carrying an article that prevents the person from keeping both hands on
the handlebars or interferes with the person's ability to safely operate the
electric personal assistive mobility device.
(10)  Only one person may operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device at a time.
(11)  A person may not park an electric personal assistive mobility device on
a highway or sidewalk in a manner that obstructs vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
(12)  A person who violates this section is guilty of a class C misdemeanor.
