41-6a-1302.   School bus -- Signs and light signals -- Flashing amber lights -- Flashing red lights -- Passing school bus -- Duty to stop -- Travel in opposite direction -- Penalties.

(1) A school bus, when operated for the transportation of school children, shall:

(a)  bear on the front and rear of the bus a plainly visible sign containing the words "school bus" in letters not less than eight inches in height, which shall be removed or covered when the vehicle is not in use for the transportation of school children; and

(b) be equipped with alternating flashing amber and red light signals visible from the front and rear, of a type approved and mounted as required under Section 41-6a-1301 and prescribed by the department under Section 41-6a-1601.

(2)  The operator of a vehicle on a highway, upon meeting or overtaking a school bus equipped with signals required under this section which is displaying alternating flashing:

(a)  amber warning light signals, shall slow the vehicle, but may proceed past the school bus using due care and caution at a speed not greater than specified in Subsection 41-6a-601(2) for school zones for the safety of the school children that may be in the vicinity; or

(b) red light signals visible from the front or rear, shall stop immediately before reaching the bus and may not proceed until the flashing red light signals cease operation.

(3)  The operator of a vehicle need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus displaying alternating flashing red light signals if the school bus is traveling in the opposite direction when:

(a)  traveling on a divided highway;

(b)  the bus is stopped at an intersection or other place controlled by a traffic-control signal or by a peace officer; or

(c) on a highway of five or more lanes, which may include a left-turn lane or two-way left turn lane.

(4) (a)  The operator of a school bus shall operate alternating flashing red light signals at all times when:

(i)  children are unloading from a school bus to cross a highway;

(ii)  a school bus is stopped for the purpose of loading children who must cross a highway to board the bus; or

(iii)  it would be hazardous for vehicles to proceed past the stopped school bus.

(b)  The alternating flashing red light signals may not be operated except:

(i)  when the school bus is stopped for loading or unloading school children; or

(ii)  for an emergency purpose.

(5)  The operator of a school bus being operated on a highway shall have the headlights of the school bus lighted.

(6) (a)  A violation of Subsection (2) or (3) is a class C misdemeanor and the minimum fine is:

(i)  $100 for a first offense;

(ii)  $200 for a second offense within three years of a previous conviction or bail forfeiture; and

(iii)  $500 for a third or subsequent offense within three years of a previous conviction or bail forfeiture.

(b)  A violation of Subsection (5) is a class C misdemeanor and the fine is $50.

(c)  The court may order the person to perform compensatory service in lieu of the fine or any portion of the fine if the court makes the reasons for the waiver part of the record.

(7)  The Driver License Division shall develop and implement a record system to distinguish:

(a)  a conviction or bail forfeiture under this section from other convictions; and

(b)  between a first and subsequent conviction or bail forfeiture under this section.

