41-6a-1309.   Advertising on a school bus.

(1)  A local school board or charter school governing board may sell advertising space on the exterior of a school bus in accordance with this section.

(2) (a)  A local school board or charter school governing board that sells advertising space on the exterior of a school bus shall adopt guidelines for the type of advertising that will be permitted.

(b)  Advertising on a school bus:

(i)  shall be age appropriate;

(ii)  shall be consistent with the instructional requirements of Section 53A-13-101;

(iii)  may not contain:

(A)  promotion of any substance or activity that is illegal for minors, such as alcohol, tobacco, drugs, or gambling;

(B)  promotion of any political party, candidate, or issue; or

(C)  sexual material; and

(iv)  may not resemble a traffic-control device as defined in Section 41-6a-102.

(3) (a)  The Department of Transportation shall make and enforce rules pursuant to Section 41-6a-1304 governing the placement and size of an advertisement on a school bus.

(b)  Rules made under Subsection (3)(a) shall:

(i)  prohibit the placement of an advertisement on the back or the front of a school bus; and

(ii)  limit the size of an advertisement to no more than 35% of the area of the side of a school bus.

(4) (a)  A school bus advertisement shall be painted or affixed by decal on a school bus in a manner that complies with rules adopted under Subsection (3).

(b)  A commercial advertiser that contracts with a school district for the use of space for an advertisement shall pay:

(i)  the cost of placing the advertisement on a school bus; and

(ii)  for the removal of the advertisement after the term of the contract has expired.

(5)  A school district or charter school shall use revenue from the sale of advertising space on a school bus for expenditures made within accounting function classification 2700, School Transportation Services, of the Financial Accounting for Local and State School Systems guidelines developed by the National Center for Education Statistics.

