41-6a-1406.   Removal and impoundment of vehicles -- Reporting and
notification requirements -- Administrative impound fee -- Refunds --
Possessory lien -- Rulemaking.
(1)  If a vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor is removed or impounded as
provided under Section 41-1a-1101, 41-6a-527, 41-6a-1405, 41-6a-1408, or
73-18-20.1 by an order of a peace officer or by an order of a person acting on
behalf of a law enforcement agency or highway authority, the removal or
impoundment of the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor shall be at the expense
of the owner.
(2)  The vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor under Subsection (1) shall be
removed or impounded to:
(a)  a state impound yard; or
(b)  if none, a garage, docking area, or other place of safety.
(3)  The peace officer may move a vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor or cause
it to be removed by a tow truck motor carrier that meets standards
established:
(a)  under Title 72, Chapter 9, Motor Carrier Safety Act; and
(b)  by the department under Subsection (10).
(4) (a)  Immediately after the removal of the vehicle, vessel, or outboard
motor, a report of the removal shall be sent to the Motor Vehicle Division by:
(i)  the peace officer or agency by whom the peace officer is employed; and
(ii)  the tow truck operator or the tow truck motor carrier by whom the tow
truck operator is employed.
(b)  The report shall be in a form specified by the Motor Vehicle Division and
shall include:
(i)  the operator's name, if known;
(ii)  a description of the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor;
(iii)  the vehicle identification number or vessel or outboard motor
identification number;
(iv)  the license number or other identification number issued by a state
agency;
(v)  the date, time, and place of impoundment;
(vi)  the reason for removal or impoundment;
(vii)  the name of the tow truck motor carrier who removed the vehicle,
vessel, or outboard motor; and
(viii)  the place where the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor is stored.
(c)  Until the tow truck operator or tow truck motor carrier reports the
removal as required under this Subsection (4), a tow truck motor carrier or
impound yard may not:
(i)  collect any fee associated with the removal; and
(ii)  begin charging storage fees.
(5) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (5)(e) and upon receipt of the
report, the Motor Vehicle Division shall give notice to the registered owner
of the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor and any lien holder in the manner
prescribed by Section 41-1a-114.
(b)  The notice shall:
(i)  state the date, time, and place of removal, the name, if applicable, of
the person operating the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor at the time of
removal, the reason for removal, and the place where the vehicle, vessel, or
outboard motor is stored;
(ii)  state that the registered owner is responsible for payment of towing,
impound, and storage fees charged against the vehicle, vessel, or outboard
motor;
(iii)  inform the registered owner of the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor
of the conditions that must be satisfied before the vehicle, vessel, or
outboard motor is released; and
(iv)  inform the registered owner and lienholder of the division's intent to
sell the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor, if within 30 days from the date
of the removal or impoundment under this section, the owner, lien holder, or
the owner's agent fails to make a claim for release of the vehicle, vessel, or
outboard motor.
(c)  Except as provided in Subsection (5)(e) and if the vehicle, vessel, or
outboard motor is not registered in this state, the Motor Vehicle Division
shall make a reasonable effort to notify the registered owner and any lien
holder of the removal and the place where the vehicle, vessel, or outboard
motor is stored.
(d)  The Motor Vehicle Division shall forward a copy of the notice to the
place where the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor is stored.
(e)  The Motor Vehicle Division is not required to give notice under this
Subsection (5) if a report was received by a tow truck operator or tow truck
motor carrier reporting a tow truck service in accordance with Subsection
72-9-603(1)(a)(i).
(6) (a)  The vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor shall be released after the
registered owner, lien holder, or the owner's agent:
(i)  makes a claim for release of the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor at
any office of the State Tax Commission;
(ii)  presents identification sufficient to prove ownership of the impounded
vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor;
(iii)  completes the registration, if needed, and pays the appropriate fees;
(iv)  if the impoundment was made under Section 41-6a-527, pays an
administrative impound fee of $330; and
(v)  pays all towing and storage fees to the place where the vehicle, vessel,
or outboard motor is stored.
(b) (i)  Twenty-nine dollars of the administrative impound fee assessed under
Subsection (6)(a)(iv) shall be dedicated credits to the Motor Vehicle
Division;
(ii)  $97 of the administrative impound fee assessed under Subsection
(6)(a)(iv) shall be deposited in the Department of Public Safety Restricted
Account created in Section 53-3-106; and
(iii)  the remainder of the administrative impound fee assessed under
Subsection (6)(a)(iv) shall be deposited in the General Fund.
(c)  The administrative impound fee assessed under Subsection (6)(a)(iv) shall
be waived or refunded by the State Tax Commission if the registered owner,
lien holder, or owner's agent presents written evidence to the State Tax
Commission that:
(i)  the Driver License Division determined that the arrested person's driver
license should not be suspended or revoked under Section 53-3-223 or 41-6a-521
as shown by a letter or other report from the Driver License Division
presented within 30 days of the final notification from the Driver License
Division; or
(ii)  the vehicle was stolen at the time of the impoundment as shown by a copy
of the stolen vehicle report presented within 30 days of the impoundment.
(7) (a)  An impounded vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor not claimed by the
registered owner or the owner's agent within the time prescribed by Section
41-1a-1103 shall be sold in accordance with that section and the proceeds, if
any, shall be disposed of as provided under Section 41-1a-1104.
(b)  The date of impoundment is considered the date of seizure for computing
the time period provided under Section 41-1a-1103.
(8)  The registered owner who pays all fees and charges incurred in the
impoundment of the owner's vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor, has a cause of
action for all the fees and charges, together with damages, court costs, and
attorney fees, against the operator of the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor
whose actions caused the removal or impoundment.
(9)  Towing, impound fees, and storage fees are a possessory lien on the
vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor.
(10)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the department shall make rules setting the performance standards for
towing companies to be used by the department.
(11) (a)  The Motor Vehicle Division may specify that a report required under
Subsection (4) be submitted in electronic form utilizing a database for
submission, storage, and retrieval of the information.
(b) (i)  Unless otherwise provided by statute, the Motor Vehicle Division or
the administrator of the database may adopt a schedule of fees assessed for
utilizing the database.
(ii)  The fees under this Subsection (11)(b) shall:
(A)  be reasonable and fair; and
(B)  reflect the cost of administering the database.
