41-6a-1507.   Custom vehicles -- Defined -- Compliance with all laws and standards -- Exceptions -- Revocation -- Signed statement required.

(1) (a)  As used in this section, "custom vehicle" means a motor vehicle that:

(i) (A)  is at least 25 years old and of a model year after 1948; or

(B) (I)  was manufactured to resemble a vehicle that is at least 25 years old and of a model year after 1948; and

(II) (Aa)  has been altered from the manufacturer's original design; or

(Bb)  has a body constructed of non-original materials; and

(ii)  is primarily a collector's item that is used for:

(A)  club activities;

(B)  exhibitions;

(C)  tours;

(D)  parades;

(E)  occasional transportation; and

(F)  other similar uses.

(b)  A custom vehicle does not include:

(i)  a motor vehicle that is used for general, daily transportation;

(ii)  a vintage vehicle as defined in Section 41-21-1; or

(iii)  a special interest vehicle as defined in Section 41-1a-102.

(2)  Except as specified under this section, a custom vehicle shall meet all safety, registration, insurance, fees, and taxes required under this title.

(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(b), all safety equipment of a custom vehicle shall at least meet the safety standards applicable to the model year of the vehicle being replicated.  Any replacement equipment shall comply with the design standards of the replacement equipment's manufacture.

(b)  A custom vehicle shall comply with current vehicle brake and stopping standards.

(4)  A custom vehicle is exempt from motor vehicle emissions inspection and maintenance program requirements under Section 41-6a-1642.

(5)  The tax commission may revoke or deny the registration of a custom vehicle for failure to comply with this section.

(6)  The owner of a custom vehicle shall provide a signed statement certifying that the custom vehicle is owned and operated for the purposes enumerated in this section to the safety inspection station in order to qualify for the exceptions provided under this section.



Amended by Chapter 171, 2009 General Session

