41-6a-1508.   Low-speed vehicle.
(1)  Except as otherwise provided in this section, a low-speed vehicle is
considered a motor vehicle for purposes of the Utah Code including
requirements for:
(a)  traffic rules under Title 41, Chapter 6a, Traffic Code;
(b)  driver licensing under Title 53, Chapter 3, Uniform Driver License Act;
(c)  motor vehicle insurance under Title 41, Chapter 12a, Financial
Responsibility of Motor Vehicle Owners and Operators Act;
(d)  vehicle registration, titling, vehicle identification numbers, license
plates, and registration fees under Title 41, Chapter 1a, Motor Vehicle Act;
(e)  vehicle taxation under Title 59, Chapter 13, Motor and Special Fuel Tax
Act, and fee in lieu of property taxes or in lieu fees under Section 59-2-405;
(f)  motor vehicle dealer licensing under Title 41, Chapter 3, Motor Vehicle
Business Regulation Act;
(g)  motor vehicle safety inspection requirements under Section 53-8-205; and
(h)  safety belt requirements under Title 41, Chapter 6a, Part 18, Motor
Vehicle Safety Belt Usage Act.
(2) (a)  A low-speed vehicle shall comply with federal safety standards
established in 49 C.F.R. 571.500 and shall be equipped with:
(i)  headlamps;
(ii)  front and rear turn signals, tail lamps, and stop lamps;
(iii)  turn signal lamps;
(iv)  reflex reflectors one on the rear of the vehicle and one on the left and
right side and as far to the rear of the vehicle as practical;
(v)  a parking brake;
(vi)  a windshield that meets the standards under Section 41-6a-1635,
including a device for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the
windshield; and
(vii)  an exterior rearview mirror on the driver's side and either an interior
rearview mirror or an exterior rearview mirror on the passenger side.
(b)  A low-speed vehicle that complies with this Subsection (2) and Subsection
(3) and that is not altered from the manufacturer is considered to comply with
equipment requirements under Part 16, Vehicle Equipment.
(3)  A person may not operate a low-speed vehicle that has been structurally
altered from the original manufacturer's design.
(4)  A low-speed vehicle is exempt from a motor vehicle emissions inspection
and maintenance program requirements under Section 41-6a-1642.
(5) (a)  Except to cross a highway at an intersection, a low-speed vehicle may
not be operated on a highway with a posted speed limit of more than 35 miles
per hour.
(b)  In addition to the restrictions under Subsection (5)(a), a highway
authority, may prohibit or restrict the operation of a low-speed vehicle on
any highway under its jurisdiction, if the highway authority determines the
prohibition or restriction is necessary for public safety.
(6)  A person may not operate a low-speed vehicle on a highway without
displaying on the rear of the low-speed vehicle, a slow-moving vehicle
identification emblem that complies with the Society of Automotive Engineers
standard SAE J943.
(7)  A person who violates Subsection (2), (3), (5), or (6) is guilty of a
class C misdemeanor.
