41-6a-1604.   Motor vehicle head lamp, tail lamps, stop lamps, and other lamps -- Requirements.

(1)  A motor vehicle shall be equipped with at least two head lamps with at least one on each side of the front of the motor vehicle.

(2) (a)  A motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer, and any other vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a combination of vehicles, shall be equipped with at least two tail lamps and two or more red reflectors mounted on the rear.

(b) (i)  Except as provided under Subsections (2)(b)(ii), (2)(c), and Section 41-6a-1612, all stop lamps or other lamps and reflectors mounted on the rear of a vehicle shall display or reflect a red color.

(ii)  A turn signal or hazard warning light may be red or yellow.

(c)  Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate.

(3) (a)  A motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer shall be equipped with two or more stop lamps and flashing turn signals.

(b)  A supplemental stop lamp may be mounted on the rear of a vehicle, if the supplemental stop lamp:

(i)  emits a red light;

(ii)  is mounted:

(A)  and constructed so that no light emitted from the device, either direct or reflected, is visible to the driver;

(B)  not lower than 15 inches above the roadway; and

(C)  on the vertical center line of the vehicle; and

(iii)  is the size, design, and candle power that conforms to federal standards regulating stop lamps.

(4) (a)  Each head lamp, tail lamp, supplemental stop lamp, flashing turn lamp, other lamp, or reflector required under this part shall comply with the requirements and limitations established under Section 41-6a-1601.

(b)  The department, by rules made under Section 41-6a-1601, may require trucks, buses, motor homes, motor vehicles with truck-campers, trailers, semitrailers, and pole trailers to have additional lamps and reflectors.

(5)  The department, by rules made under Section 41-6a-1601, may allow:

(a)  one tail lamp on any vehicle equipped with only one when it was made;

(b)  one stop lamp on any vehicle equipped with only one when it was made; and

(c)  passenger cars and trucks with a width less than 80 inches and manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1953, need not be equipped with electric turn signal lamps.

