41-6a-1608.   Farm tractors and equipment -- Lamps and reflectors -- Slow-moving vehicle emblem.

(1) (a)  A farm tractor and a self-propelled implement of husbandry manufactured or assembled after January 1, 1970, shall be equipped with hazard warning lights of a type described in Section 41-6a-1611.

(b)  The hazard warning lights shall be:

(i)  visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front and rear in normal sunlight; and

(ii)  displayed whenever a farm tractor or self-propelled implement of husbandry is operated on a highway.

(2) (a)  A farm tractor and a self-propelled implement of husbandry manufactured or assembled after January 1, 1970, shall be equipped with lamps and reflectors as required under this section.

(b)  A farm tractor and a self-propelled implement of husbandry manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1970 shall be equipped with lamps and reflectors as required in this section if operated on a highway under the conditions specified under Subsection 41-6a-1603(1)(a).

(3)  Subject to the provisions of Subsection (2), a farm tractor and an implement of husbandry shall be equipped with:

(a)  at least two head lamps;

(b)  at least one red lamp visible when lighted from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear mounted as far to the left of the center of the vehicle as practicable; and

(c)  at least two red reflectors visible from all distances within 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps.

(4)  Towed farm equipment or a towed implement of husbandry shall be equipped with lamps and reflectors as provided under this Subsection (4), if operated on a highway under the conditions specified under Subsection 41-6a-1603(1)(a).

(a)  If the towed unit or its load extends more than four feet to the rear of the tractor or obscures any light on a tractor, the towed unit shall be equipped on the rear with at least two red reflectors visible from all distances within 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps.

(b) (i)  If the towed unit extends more than four feet to the left of the center line of the tractor, the towed unit shall be equipped on the front with an amber reflector visible from all distances within 600 feet to 100 feet to the front when directly in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps.

(ii)  The reflector under Subsection (4)(b)(i) shall be positioned to indicate, as nearly as practicable, the extreme left projection of the towed unit.

(c)  If the towed unit or its load obscures either of the vehicle hazard warning lights on the tractor, the towed unit shall be equipped with vehicle hazard warning lights described in Subsection (1).

(5) (a)  The two red reflectors required under Subsections (3) and (4) shall be positioned to show, as nearly as practicable, the extreme width of the vehicle or combination of vehicles as viewed from the rear of the vehicle or combination of vehicles.

(b)  Reflective tape or paint may be used in lieu of the reflectors required under this section.

(6) (a)  A slow-moving vehicle emblem mounted on the rear is required on:

(i)  a farm tractor and a self-propelled implement of husbandry designed for operation at speeds not in excess of 25 miles per hour; or

(ii)  towed farm equipment or a towed implement of husbandry if the towed unit or any load on it obscures the slow-moving vehicle emblem on the farm tractor or self-propelled implement of husbandry.

(b)  The slow-moving vehicle emblem's design, size, mounting, and position on the vehicle required under this Subsection (6), shall:

(i)  comply with current standards and specifications of the American Society of Agricultural Engineers; and

(ii)  be approved by the department.

(c)  A slow-moving vehicle identification emblem may not be:

(i)  used except as required under this section and Sections 41-6a-1508 and 41-6a-1609; or

(ii)  displayed on a vehicle traveling at a speed in excess of 25 miles per hour.

