41-6a-1622.   Purchase and testing of equipment by department -- Prohibition
against sale of substandard devices -- Injunction -- Review -- Appeal.
(1)  The department may purchase and test equipment described in Section
41-6a-1619 to determine whether it complies with the standards under this
part.
(2)  Upon identification of unapproved or substandard devices being sold or
offered for sale, the department shall give notice to the person selling them
that the person is in violation of Section 41-6a-1619 and that selling or
offering them for sale is prohibited.
(3) (a)  In order to enforce the prohibition against the sale or offer for
sale of unapproved or substandard devices, the department may file a petition
in the district court of the county in which the person maintains a place of
business to enjoin any further sale or offer of sale of the unapproved or
substandard part.
(b)  An injunction under Subsection (3)(a) shall be issued upon a prima facie
showing that:
(i)  the part is of a type required to be approved by the department under
this part;
(ii)  the part has not been approved; and
(iii)  the part is being sold or offered for sale.
(4) (a)  Any person enjoined under Subsection (3) may file a petition for a
review of the court's order in the county in which the injunction was issued.
(b)  A copy of the petition shall be served on the department and the
department shall have 30 days after the service to file an answer, but the
petition shall not act as a stay of the injunction.
(c)  At the hearing on the petition, the judge shall sit without intervention
of a jury and shall only receive evidence as to whether the parts in question:
(i)  are of a type for which approval by the department is required;
(ii)  have not been approved; and
(iii)  are being sold or offered for sale in violation of Section 41-6a-1619.
(d)  Following a hearing under Subsection (4)(c), the injunction shall be
continued if the court finds that each condition under Subsection (4)(c) has
been met.
(5)  Either party may appeal the decision of the court in the same manner as
in other civil appeals from the district court.
