41-6a-1629.   Vehicles subject to Sections 41-6a-1629 through 41-6a-1633 -- Definitions.

(1)  As used in Sections 41-6a-1629 through 41-6a-1633:

(a)  "Frame" means the main longitudinal structural members of the chassis of the vehicle or, for vehicles with unitized body construction, the lowest longitudinal structural member of the body of the vehicle.

(b)  "Frame height" means the vertical distance between the ground and the lowest point on the frame.  The distance is measured when the vehicle is unladen and on a level surface.

(c)  "Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR)" means the original manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating, whether or not the vehicle is modified by use of parts not originally installed by the original manufacturer.

(d)  "Manufacturer" means any person engaged in manufacturing or assembling new motor vehicles utilizing new parts or components, or a person defined as a manufacturer in current applicable Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards and Regulations.

(e)  "Mechanical alteration" or "mechanical lift" means modification or alteration of the axles, chassis, suspension, or body by any means, including tires and wheels, and excluding any load, which affects the frame height of the motor vehicle.

(f)  "O.E.M." means original equipment manufacturer.

(g)  "Original equipment" means an item of motor vehicle equipment, including tires, which were installed in or on a motor vehicle or available as an option for the particular vehicle from the original manufacturer at the time of its delivery to the first purchaser.

(h)  "Wheel track" means the shortest distance between the center of the tire treads on the same axle.  On vehicles having dissimilar axle widths, the axle with the widest distance is used for all calculations.

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), the provisions of Sections 41-6a-1629 through 41-6a-1633 apply to all motor vehicles operated or parked on a highway.

(b)  The provisions of Sections 41-6a-1629 through 41-6a-1633 do not apply to the following vehicles:

(i)  implements of husbandry;

(ii)  farm tractors;

(iii)  road machinery;

(iv)  road rollers; and

(v)  historical vehicles or horseless carriages that have been restored as near to original condition as is reasonably possible.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 2, 2005 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 26, 2005 General Session

