41-6a-1636.   Tires which are prohibited -- Regulatory powers of state
transportation department -- Winter use of studs -- Special permits -- Tread
depth.
(1)  A solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire traction
surface at least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire
periphery.
(2)  A person may not operate or move on a highway a motor vehicle, trailer,
or semitrailer having a metal tire in contact with the roadway.
(3)  Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person may not have a
tire on a vehicle that is moved on a highway that has on the tire's periphery
a block, stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberances of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire.
(4)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the Department of Transportation may make rules to permit the use of
tires on a vehicle having protuberances other than rubber, if the department
concludes that protuberances do not:
(a)  damage the highway significantly; or
(b)  constitute a hazard to life, health, or property.
(5)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a person may use:
(a)  a tire with protuberances consisting of tungsten carbide studs on a
vehicle if the studs:
(i)  are only used during the winter periods of October fifteenth through
December thirty-first and January first through March thirty-first of each
year;
(ii)  do not project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire more
than .050 inches; and
(iii)  are not used on a vehicle with a maximum gross weight in excess of
9,000 pounds unless the vehicle is an emergency vehicle or school bus;
(b)  farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the
highway; and
(c)  tire chains of reasonable proportions on a vehicle when required for
safety because of snow, ice, or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to
skid.
        (6)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a highway
authority, for a highway under its jurisdiction, may issue special permits
authorizing the operation on a highway of:
(a)  farm tractors;
(b)  other farm machinery; or
(c)  traction engines or tractors having movable tracks with transverse
corrugations on the periphery of the movable tracks.
(7) (a)  A person may not operate a vehicle if one or more of the tires in use
on the vehicle:
(i)  is in an unsafe operating condition; or
(ii)  has a tread depth less than 2/32 inch measured in any two adjacent tread
grooves at three equally spaced intervals around the circumference of the
tire.
(b)  The measurement under Subsection (7)(a) may not be made at the location
of any tread wear indicator, tie bar, hump, or fillet.
(8)  A person in the business of selling tires may not sell or offer for sale
for highway use any tire prohibited for use under Subsection (7).
