41-6a-1637.   Flares, fusees, or electric lanterns and flags -- Alternative
reflector units -- Duty to carry in trucks and buses -- Requirements.
(1)  Except as provided under Subsection (2) and unless the vehicle is
carrying the equipment required under this section, a person may not operate a
truck, bus or truck-tractor, or a motor vehicle towing a house trailer:
(a)  on a highway outside an urban district; or
(b)  on a divided highway during hours of darkness specified under Section
41-6a-1603.
(2) (a)  The vehicle shall carry at least:
(i)  three flares;
(ii)   three red electric lanterns;
(iii)  three portable red emergency reflectors; or
(iv)  three red-burning fusees.
(b)  The equipment required under Subsections (2)(a)(i) and (ii) shall be
capable of being seen and distinguished at a distance of not less than 600
feet under normal atmospheric conditions during the hours of darkness.
(c)  The equipment required under Subsection (2)(a)(iii) shall be capable of
reflecting red light clearly visible from a distance of not less than 600 feet
under normal atmospheric conditions during the hours of darkness when directly
in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps.
(3)  A flare, fusee, electric lantern, warning flag, or portable reflector
used under this section or Section 41-6a-1638 shall comply with specifications
adopted under Section 41-6a-1601.
(4) (a)  A person may not operate a motor vehicle used for the transportation
of explosives or any cargo tank truck used for the transportation of flammable
liquids or compressed gases under the conditions specified under Subsections
(1)(a) and (b) unless there is carried in the vehicle:
(i)  three red electric lanterns; or
(ii)  three portable red emergency reflectors.
(b)  A person operating a vehicle specified under Subsection (4)(a) or a
vehicle using compressed gas as a motor fuel may not carry in the vehicle a
flare, fusee, or signal produced by flame.
(5)  A person may not operate a vehicle described under this section on a
highway outside of an urban district or on a divided highway during daylight
hours unless at least two red flags, not less than 12 inches square, with
standards to support the flags are carried in the vehicle.
