20A-16-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Covered voter" means:

(a)  a uniformed-service voter or an overseas voter who is registered to vote in the state; or

(b)  a uniformed-service voter whose voting residence is in the state and who otherwise satisfies the state's voter eligibility requirements.

(2)  "Dependent" means an individual recognized as a dependent by a uniformed service.

(3)  "Federal postcard application" means the application prescribed under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, Sec. 101(b)(2), 42 U.S.C. Sec. 1973ff(b)(2).

(4)  "Federal write-in absentee ballot" means the ballot described in the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, Sec. 103, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 1973ff-2.

(5)  "Military-overseas ballot" means:

(a)  a federal write-in absentee ballot;

(b)  a ballot specifically prepared or distributed for use by a covered voter in accordance with this chapter; or

(c)  a ballot cast by a covered voter in accordance with this chapter.

(6)  "Overseas voter" means a United States citizen who is outside the United States.

(7)  "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(8)  "Uniformed service" means:

(a)  active and reserve components of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard of the United States;

(b)  the Merchant Marine, the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service, or the commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the United States; or

(c)  the National Guard.

(9)  "Uniformed-service voter" means an individual who is qualified to vote and is:

(a)  a member of the active or reserve components of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard of the United States who is on active duty;

(b)  a member of the Merchant Marine, the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service, or the commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the United States;

(c)  a member on activated status of the National Guard; or

(d)  a spouse or dependent of a member referred to in Subsections (9)(a) through (c).

(10)  "United States" means the several states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, and any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.



Enacted by Chapter 327, 2011 General Session

