76-9-701.   Intoxication -- Release of arrested person or placement in
detoxification center.
(1)  A person is guilty of intoxication if the person is under the influence
of alcohol, a controlled substance, or any substance having the property of
releasing toxic vapors, to a degree that the person may endanger the person or
another, in a public place or in a private place where the person unreasonably
disturbs other persons.
(2) (a)  A peace officer or a magistrate may release from custody a person
arrested under this section if the peace officer or magistrate believes
imprisonment is unnecessary for the protection of the person or another.
(b)  A peace officer may take the arrested person to a detoxification center
or other special facility as an alternative to incarceration or release from
custody.
(3)  If a minor is found by a court to have violated this section and the
violation is the minor's second or subsequent violation of this section, the
court:
(a)  shall order the minor to participate in an educational series as defined
in Section 41-6a-501; and
(b)  may order the minor to participate in a screening as defined in Section
41-6a-501.
(4) (a)  When a minor who is at least 18 years old, but younger than 21 years
old, is found by a court to have violated this section, the court hearing the
case shall suspend the minor's driving privileges under Section 53-3-219.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirement in Subsection (4)(a), the court may
reduce the suspension period required under Section 53-3-219 if:
(i)  the violation is the minor's first violation of this section; and
(ii)  the minor completes an educational series as defined in Section
41-6a-501.
(5)  When a person who is at least 13 years old, but younger than 18 years
old, is found by a court to have violated this section, the provisions
regarding suspension of the driver's license under Section 78A-6-606 apply to
the violation.
(6)  When the court issues an order suspending a person's driving privileges
for a violation of this section, the person's driver license shall be
suspended under Section 53-3-219.
(7)  An offense under this section is a class C misdemeanor.
