76-9-1008.   Proof of immigration status required to receive public benefits.

(1) (a)  An agency that provides state or local public benefits as defined in 8 U.S.C. Sec. 1621 shall comply with Section 63G-12-402 and shall also comply with this section, except:

(i)  as provided in Subsection 63G-12-402(3)(g) or (k); or

(ii)  when compliance is exempted by federal law or when compliance could reasonably be expected to be grounds for the federal government to withhold federal Medicaid funding.

(b)  The agency shall verify a person's lawful presence in the United States by requiring that the applicant under this section sign a certificate under penalty of perjury, stating that the applicant:

(i)  is a United States citizen; or

(ii)  is a qualified alien as defined by 8 U.S.C. Sec. 1641.

(c)  The certificate under Subsection (1)(b) shall include a statement advising the signer that providing false information subjects the signer to penalties for perjury.

(d)  The signature under this Subsection (1) may be executed in person or electronically.

(e)  When an applicant who is a qualified alien has executed the certificate under this section, the applicant's eligibility for benefits shall be verified by the agency through the federal SAVE program or an equivalent program designated by the United States Department of Homeland Security.

(2)  Any person who knowingly and willfully makes a false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement of representation in a certificate executed under this section is guilty of public assistance fraud under Section 76-8-1205.

(3)  If the certificate constitutes a false claim of United States citizenship under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 911, the agency requiring the certificate shall file a complaint with the United States Attorney for the applicable federal judicial district based upon the venue in which the certificate was executed.

(4)  Agencies may, with the concurrence of the Utah Attorney General, adopt variations to the requirements of the provisions of this section that provide for adjudication of unique individual circumstances where the verification procedures in this section would impose unusual hardship on a legal resident of this state.

(5)  If an agency under Subsection (1) receives verification that a person making an application for any benefit, service, or license is not a qualified alien, the agency shall provide the information to the local law enforcement agency for enforcement of Section 76-8-1205 unless prohibited by federal mandate.



Amended by Chapter 278, 2013 General Session

