77-27-2.   Board of Pardons and Parole -- Creation -- Compensation --
Functions.
(1)  There is created the Board of Pardons and Parole.  The board shall
consist of five full-time members and not more than five pro tempore members
to be appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate as provided in
this section.  The members of the board shall be resident citizens of the
state.  The governor shall establish salaries for the members of the board
within the salary range fixed by the Legislature in Title 67, Chapter 22,
State Officer Compensation.
(2) (a) (i)  The full-time board members shall serve terms of five years.  The
terms of the full-time members shall be staggered so one board member is
appointed for a term of five years on March 1 of each year.
(ii)  The pro tempore members shall serve terms of five years, beginning on
March 1 of the year of appointment, with no more than one pro tempore member
term beginning or expiring in the same calendar year.  If a pro tempore member
vacancy occurs, the board may submit the names of not fewer than three or more
than five persons to the governor for appointment to fill the vacancy.
(b)  All vacancies occurring on the board for any cause shall be filled by the
governor with the consent of the Senate pursuant to this section for the
unexpired term of the vacating member.
(c)  The governor may at any time remove any member of the board for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance or malfeasance in office, or for
cause upon a hearing.
(d)  A member of the board may not hold any other office in the government of
the United States, this state or any other state, or of any county government
or municipal corporation within a state.  A member may not engage in any
occupation or business inconsistent with the member's duties.
(e)  A majority of the board constitutes a quorum for the transaction of
business, including the holding of hearings at any time or any location within
or without the state, or for the purpose of exercising any duty or authority
of the board.  Action taken by a majority of the board regarding whether
parole, pardon, commutation, termination of sentence, or remission of fines or
forfeitures may be granted or restitution ordered in individual cases is
deemed the action of the board.  A majority vote of the five full-time members
of the board is required for adoption of rules or policies of general
applicability as provided by statute.  However, a vacancy on the board does
not impair the right of the remaining board members to exercise any duty or
authority of the board as long as a majority of the board remains.
(f)  Any investigation, inquiry, or hearing that the board has authority to
undertake or hold may be conducted by any board member or an examiner
appointed by the board.  When any of these actions are approved and confirmed
by the board and filed in its office, they are considered to be the action of
the board and have the same effect as if originally made by the board.
(g)  When a full-time board member is absent or in other extraordinary
circumstances the chair may, as dictated by public interest and efficient
administration of the board, assign a pro tempore member to act in the place
of a full-time member.  Pro tempore members shall receive a per diem rate of
compensation as established by the Division of Finance and all actual and
necessary expenses incurred in attending to official business.
(h)  The chair may request staff and administrative support as necessary from
the Department of Corrections.
(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(b), the Commission on Criminal
and Juvenile Justice shall:
(i)  recommend five applicants to the governor for a full-time member
appointment to the Board of Pardons and Parole; and
(ii)  consider applicants' knowledge of the criminal justice system, state and
federal criminal law, judicial procedure, corrections policies and procedures,
and behavioral sciences.
(b)  The procedures and requirements of Subsection (3)(a) do not apply if the
governor appoints a sitting board member to a new term of office.
(4) (a)  The board shall appoint an individual to serve as its mental health
adviser and may appoint other staff necessary to aid it in fulfilling its
responsibilities under Title 77, Chapter 16a, Commitment and Treatment of
Mentally Ill Persons.  The adviser shall prepare reports and recommendations
to the board on all persons adjudicated as guilty and mentally ill, in
accordance with Title 77, Chapter 16a.
(b)  The mental health adviser shall possess the qualifications necessary to
carry out the duties imposed by the board and may not be employed by the
Department of Corrections or the Utah State Hospital.
(i)  The Board of Pardons and Parole may review outside employment by the
mental health advisor.
(ii)  The Board of Pardons and Parole shall develop rules governing employment
with entities other than the board by the mental health advisor for the
purpose of prohibiting a conflict of interest.
(c)  The mental health adviser shall:
(i)  act as liaison for the board with the Department of Human Services and
local mental health authorities;
(ii)  educate the members of the board regarding the needs and special
circumstances of mentally ill persons in the criminal justice system;
(iii)  in cooperation with the Department of Corrections, monitor the status
of persons in the prison who have been found guilty and mentally ill;
(iv)  monitor the progress of other persons under the board's jurisdiction who
are mentally ill;
(v)  conduct hearings as necessary in the preparation of reports and
recommendations; and
(vi)  perform other duties as assigned by the board.
