77-27-5.   Board of Pardons and Parole authority.
(1) (a)  The Board of Pardons and Parole shall determine by majority decision
when and under what conditions, subject to this chapter and other laws of the
state, persons committed to serve sentences in class A misdemeanor cases at
penal or correctional facilities which are under the jurisdiction of the
Department of Corrections, and all felony cases except treason or impeachment
or as otherwise limited by law, may be released upon parole, pardoned, ordered
to pay restitution, or have their fines, forfeitures, or restitution remitted,
or their sentences commuted or terminated.
(b)  The board may sit together or in panels to conduct hearings.  The chair
shall appoint members to the panels in any combination and in accordance with
rules promulgated by the board, except in hearings involving commutation and
pardons.  The chair may participate on any panel and when doing so is chair of
the panel.  The chair of the board may designate the chair for any other
panel.
(c)  No restitution may be ordered, no fine, forfeiture, or restitution
remitted, no parole, pardon, or commutation granted or sentence terminated,
except after a full hearing before the board or the board's appointed examiner
in open session.  Any action taken under this subsection other than by a
majority of the board shall be affirmed by a majority of the board.
(d)  A commutation or pardon may be granted only after a full hearing before
the board.
(e)  The board may determine restitution as provided in Section 77-27-6 and
Subsection 77-38a-302(5)(d)(ii).
(2) (a)  In the case of original parole grant hearings, rehearings, and parole
revocation hearings, timely prior notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be given to the defendant, the county or district attorney's office
responsible for prosecution of the case, the sentencing court, law enforcement
officials responsible for the defendant's arrest and conviction, and whenever
possible, the victim or the victim's family.
(b)  Notice to the victim, his representative, or his family shall include
information provided in Section 77-27-9.5, and any related rules made by the
board under that section.  This information shall be provided in terms that
are reasonable for the lay person to understand.
(3)  Decisions of the board in cases involving paroles, pardons, commutations
or terminations of sentence, restitution, or remission of fines or forfeitures
are final and are not subject to judicial review.  Nothing in this section
prevents the obtaining or enforcement of a civil judgment, including
restitution as provided in Section 77-27-6.
(4)  This chapter may not be construed as a denial of or limitation of the
governor's power to grant respite or reprieves in all cases of convictions for
offenses against the state, except treason or conviction on impeachment.
However, respites or reprieves may not extend beyond the next session of the
Board of Pardons and Parole and the board, at that session, shall continue or
terminate the respite or reprieve, or it may commute the punishment, or pardon
the offense as provided.  In the case of conviction for treason, the governor
may suspend execution of the sentence until the case is reported to the
Legislature at its next session.  The Legislature shall then either pardon or
commute the sentence, or direct its execution.
(5)  In determining when, where, and under what conditions offenders serving
sentences may be paroled, pardoned, have restitution ordered, or have their
fines or forfeitures remitted, or their sentences commuted or terminated, the
board shall consider whether the persons have made or are prepared to make
restitution as ascertained in accordance with the standards and procedures of
Section 77-38a-302, as a condition of any parole, pardon, remission of fines
or forfeitures, or commutation or termination of sentence.
(6)  In determining whether parole may be terminated, the board shall consider
the offense committed by the parolee, the parole period as provided in Section
76-3-202, and in accordance with Section 77-27-13.
