77-27-6.   Payment of restitution.

(1)  When the Board of Pardons and Parole orders the release on parole of an inmate who has been sentenced to make restitution pursuant to Title 77, Chapter 38a, Crime Victims Restitution Act, or whom the board has ordered to make restitution, and all or a portion of restitution is still owing, the board may establish a schedule, including both complete and court-ordered restitution, by which payment of the restitution shall be made, or order compensatory or other service in lieu of or in combination with restitution. In fixing the schedule and supervising the paroled offender's performance, the board may consider the factors specified in Section 77-38a-302.

(2) (a)  The board may impose any court order for restitution.

(b)  In accordance with Subsection 77-38a-302(5)(d)(ii), the board may order that a defendant make restitution for pecuniary damages that were not determined by the court, unless the board applying the criteria as set forth in Section 77-38a-302 determines that restitution is inappropriate.

(c)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(d), the board shall make all orders of restitution within 60 days after the termination or expiration of the defendant's sentence.

(d)  If, upon termination or expiration of a defendant's sentence, the board has continuing jurisdiction over the defendant for a separate criminal offense, the board may defer making an order of restitution until termination or expiration of all sentences for that defendant.

(3)  The board may also make orders of restitution for recovery of any or all costs incurred by the Department of Corrections or the state or any other agency arising out of the defendant's needs or conduct.

(4)  If the defendant, upon termination or expiration of the sentence owes outstanding fines, restitution, or other assessed costs, or if the board makes an order of restitution within 60 days after the termination or expiration of the defendant's sentence, the matter shall be referred to the district court for civil collection remedies.  The Board of Pardons and Parole shall forward a restitution order to the sentencing court to be entered on the judgment docket.  The entry shall constitute a lien and is subject to the same rules as a judgment for money in a civil judgment.



Amended by Chapter 96, 2005 General Session

