77-27-9.   Parole proceedings.
(1) (a)  The Board of Pardons and Parole may pardon or parole any offender or
commute or terminate the sentence of any offender committed to a penal or
correctional facility under the jurisdiction of the Department of Corrections
for a felony or class A misdemeanor except as provided in Subsection (2).
(b)  The board may not release any offender before the minimum term has been
served unless the board finds mitigating circumstances which justify the
release and unless the board has granted a full hearing, in open session,
after previous notice of the time and location of the hearing, and recorded
the proceedings and decisions of the board.
(c)  The board may not pardon or parole any offender or commute or terminate
the sentence of any offender unless the board has granted a full hearing, in
open session, after previous notice of the time and location of the hearing,
and recorded the proceedings and decisions of the board.
(d)  The release of an offender shall be at the initiative of the board, which
shall consider each case as the offender becomes eligible.  However, a
prisoner may submit the prisoner's own application, subject to the rules of
the board promulgated in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(2) (a)  A person sentenced to prison prior to April 29, 1996, for a first
degree felony involving child kidnapping, a violation of Section 76-5-301.1;
aggravated kidnapping, a violation of Section 76-5-302; rape of a child, a
violation of Section 76-5-402.1; object rape of a child, a violation of
Section 76-5-402.3; sodomy upon a child, a violation of Section 76-5-403.1;
aggravated sexual abuse of a child, a violation of Subsection 76-5-404.1(4);
aggravated sexual assault, a violation of Section 76-5-405; or a prior offense
as described in Section 76-3-407, may not be eligible for release on parole by
the Board of Pardons and Parole until the offender has fully completed serving
the minimum mandatory sentence imposed by the court.  This Subsection (2)(a)
supersedes any other provision of law.
(b)  The board may not parole any offender or commute or terminate the
sentence of any offender before the offender has served the minimum term for
the offense, if the offender was sentenced prior to April 29, 1996, and if:
(i)  the offender was convicted of forcible sexual abuse, forcible sodomy,
rape, aggravated assault, kidnapping, aggravated kidnapping, or aggravated
sexual assault as defined in Title 76, Chapter 5, Offenses Against the Person;
and
(ii)  the victim of the offense was under 18 years of age at the time the
offense was committed.
(c)  For a crime committed on or after April 29, 1996, the board may parole
any offender under Subsections (2)(b)(i) and (ii) for lifetime parole as
provided in this section.
(d)  The board may not pardon or parole any offender or commute or terminate
the sentence of any offender who is sentenced to life in prison without parole
except as provided in Subsection (6).
(e)  On or after April 27, 1992, the board may commute a sentence of death
only to a sentence of life in prison without parole.
(f)  The restrictions imposed in Subsections (2)(d) and (e) apply to all cases
that come before the Board of Pardons and Parole on or after April 27, 1992.
(3) (a)  The board may issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses
and the production of evidence, to administer oaths, and to take testimony for
the purpose of any investigation by the board or any of its members or by a
designated hearing examiner in the performance of its duties.
(b)  A person who willfully disobeys a properly served subpoena issued by the
board is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
(4) (a)  The board may adopt rules consistent with law for its government,
meetings and hearings, the conduct of proceedings before it, the parole and
pardon of offenders, the commutation and termination of sentences, and the
general conditions under which parole may be granted and revoked.
(b)  The rules shall ensure an adequate opportunity for victims to participate
at hearings held under this chapter, as provided in Section 77-27-9.5.
(c)  The rules may allow the board to establish reasonable and equitable time
limits on the presentations by all participants in hearings held under this
chapter.
(5)  The board does not provide counseling or therapy for victims as a part of
their participation in any hearing under this chapter.
(6)  The board may parole a person sentenced to life in prison without parole
if the board finds by clear and convincing evidence that the person is
permanently incapable of being a threat to the safety of society.
