77-27-11.   Revocation of parole.
(1)  The board may revoke the parole of any person who is found to have
violated any condition of his parole.
(2) (a)  If a parolee is detained by the Department of Corrections or any law
enforcement official for a suspected violation of parole, the Department of
Corrections shall immediately report the alleged violation to the board, by
means of an incident report, and make any recommendation regarding the
incident.
(b)  No parolee may be held for a period longer than 72 hours, excluding
weekends and holidays, without first obtaining a warrant.
(3)  Any member of the board may issue a warrant based upon a certified
warrant request to a peace officer or other persons authorized to arrest,
detain, and return to actual custody a parolee, and may upon arrest or
otherwise direct the Department of Corrections to determine if there is
probable cause to believe that the parolee has violated the conditions of his
parole.
(4)  Upon a finding of probable cause, a parolee may be further detained or
imprisoned again pending a hearing by the board or its appointed examiner.
(5) (a)  The board or its appointed examiner shall conduct a hearing on the
alleged violation, and the parolee shall have written notice of the time and
location of the hearing, the alleged violation of parole, and a statement of
the evidence against him.
(b)  The board or its appointed examiner shall provide the parolee the
opportunity:
(i)  to be present;
(ii)  to be heard;
(iii)  to present witnesses and documentary evidence;
(iv)  to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses, absent a showing of
good cause for not allowing the confrontation; and
(v)  to be represented by counsel when the parolee is mentally incompetent or
pleading not guilty.
(c)  If heard by an appointed examiner, the examiner shall make a written
decision which shall include a statement of the facts relied upon by the
examiner in determining the guilt or innocence of the parolee on the alleged
violation and a conclusion as to whether the alleged violation occurred.  The
appointed examiner shall then refer the case to the board for disposition.
(d)  Final decisions shall be reached by majority vote of the members of the
board sitting and the parolee shall be promptly notified in writing of the
board's findings and decision.
(6)  Parolees found to have violated the conditions of parole may, at the
discretion of the board, be returned to parole, have restitution ordered, or
be imprisoned again as determined by the board, not to exceed the maximum
term, or be subject to any other conditions the board may impose within its
discretion.
