77-27-25.   Amendments to interstate compact -- Transfer of prisoners -- Costs -- Supplementary agreements.

The governor is authorized, on behalf of the state, to execute amendments to the compacts provided for in Section 77-27-24, with any other state legally joined therein. "State," as used in this section, includes any state, territory or possession of the United States and the District of Columbia. The amendments to the compact shall be in form substantially as follows:

(a)  Whenever the duly constituted judicial and administrative authorities in a sending state shall determine incarceration of a probationer or reincarceration of a parolee is necessary or desirable, said officials may direct that the incarceration or reincarceration be in a prison or other correctional institution within the territory of the receiving state, such receiving state to act in that regard solely as agent for the sending state.

(b)  As used in this amendment, the term "receiving state" shall be construed to mean any state, other than the sending state, in which a parolee or probationer may be found, provided that said state is a party to this amendment.

(c)  Every state which adopts this amendment shall designate at least one of its correctional institutions as a "Compact Institution" and shall incarcerate persons therein as provided in (a) hereof unless the sending and receiving state in question shall make specific contractual arrangements to the contrary. All states party to this amendment shall have access to "Compact Institutions" at all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting the facilities thereof and for the purpose of visiting such of said state's prisoners as may be confined in the institution.

(d)  Persons confined in "Compact Institutions" pursuant to the terms of this compact shall at all times be subject to the jurisdiction of the sending state and may at any time be removed from said "Compact Institution" for transfer to a prison or other correctional institution within the sending state, for return to probation or parole, for discharge, or for any other purpose permitted by the laws of the sending state.

(e)  All persons who may be confined in a "Compact Institution" pursuant to the provisions of this amendment shall be treated in a reasonable and humane manner. The fact of incarceration or reincarceration in a receiving state shall not deprive any person so incarcerated or reincarcerated of any rights which said person would have had if incarcerated or reincarcerated in an appropriate institution of the sending state; nor shall any agreement to submit to incarceration or reincarceration pursuant to the terms of this amendment be construed as a waiver of any rights which the prisoner would have had if he had been incarcerated or reincarcerated in an appropriate institution of the sending state, except that the hearing or hearings, if any, to which a parolee or probationer may be entitled, (prior to incarceration or reincarceration) by the laws of the sending state may be had before the appropriate judicial or administrative officers of the receiving state. In this event, said judicial and administrative officers shall act as agents of the sending state after consultation with appropriate officers of the sending state.

(f)  Any receiving state incurring costs or other expenses under this amendment shall be reimbursed in the amount of such costs or other expenses by the sending state unless the states concerned shall specifically otherwise agree. Any two or more states party to this amendment may enter into supplementary agreements determining a different allocation of costs as among themselves.

(g)  This amendment shall take effect when ratified by any two or more states party to the compact and shall be effective as to those states which have specifically ratified this amendment. Rules and regulations necessary to effectuate the terms of this amendment may be promulgated by the appropriate officers of those states which have ratified this amendment.



Enacted by Chapter 15, 1980 General Session

