59-14-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Cigarette" means a roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco:

(a)  regardless of:

(i)  the size of the roll;

(ii)  the shape of the roll; or

(iii)  whether the tobacco is:

(A)  flavored;

(B)  adulterated; or

(C)  mixed with any other ingredient; and

(b)  if the wrapper or cover of the roll is made of paper or any other substance or material except tobacco.

(2)  "Cigarette rolling machine" means a device or machine that has the capability to produce at least 150 cigarettes in less than 30 minutes.

(3)  "Cigarette rolling machine operator" means a person who:

(a) (i)  controls, leases, owns, possesses, or otherwise has available for use a cigarette rolling machine; and

(ii)  makes the cigarette rolling machine available for use by another person to produce a cigarette; or

(b)  offers for sale, at retail, a cigarette produced from the cigarette rolling machine.

(4)  "Consumer" means a person that is not required:

(a)  under Section 59-14-201 to obtain a license under Section 59-14-202; or

(b)  under Section 59-14-301 to obtain a license under Section 59-14-202.

(5)  "Counterfeit cigarette" means:

(a)  a cigarette that has a false manufacturing label; or

(b)  a package of cigarettes bearing a counterfeit tax stamp.

(6)  "Importer" means a person who imports into the United States, either directly or indirectly, a finished cigarette for sale or distribution.

(7)  "Indian tribal entity" means a federally recognized Indian tribe, tribal entity, or any other person doing business as a distributor or retailer of cigarettes on tribal lands located in the state.

(8)  "Little cigar" means a roll for smoking:

(a)  made wholly or in part of tobacco;

(b)  that uses an integrated cellulose acetate filter or other similar filter; and

(c)  that is wrapped in a substance:

(i)  containing tobacco; and

(ii)  that is not exclusively natural leaf tobacco.

(9) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (9)(b), "manufacturer" means a person who manufactures, fabricates, assembles, processes, or labels a finished cigarette.

(b)  "Manufacturer" does not include a cigarette rolling machine operator.

(10)  "Moist snuff" means tobacco that:

(a)  is finely:

(i)  cut;

(ii)  ground; or

(iii)  powdered;

(b)  has at least 45% moisture content, as determined by the commission by rule made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act;

(c)  is not intended to be:

(i)  smoked; or

(ii)  placed in the nasal cavity; and

(d)  except for single-use pouches of loose tobacco, is not packaged, produced, sold, or distributed in single-use units, including:

(i)  tablets;

(ii)  lozenges;

(iii)  strips;

(iv)  sticks; or

(v)  packages containing multiple single-use units.

(11)  "Retailer" means a person that:

(a)  sells or distributes a cigarette to a consumer in the state; or

(b)  intends to sell or distribute a cigarette to a consumer in the state.

(12)  "Stamp" means the indicia required to be placed on a cigarette package that evidences payment of the tax on cigarettes required by Section 59-14-205.

(13) (a)  "Tobacco product" means a product made of, or containing, tobacco.

(b)  "Tobacco product" includes:

(i)  a cigarette produced from a cigarette rolling machine;

(ii)  a little cigar; or

(iii)  moist snuff.

(c)  "Tobacco product" does not include a cigarette.

(14)  "Tribal lands" means land held by the United States in trust for a federally recognized Indian tribe.



Amended by Chapter 148, 2013 General Session

