59-14-204.   Tax basis -- Rate -- Future increase -- Restricted account --
Use of revenues.
(1)  Except for cigarettes described under Subsection 59-14-210(3), there is
levied a tax upon the sale, use, storage, or distribution of cigarettes in the
state.
(2)  The rates of the tax levied under Subsection (1) are:
(a)  3.475 cents on each cigarette, for all cigarettes weighing not more than
three pounds per thousand cigarettes; and
(b)  4.075 cents on each cigarette, for all cigarettes weighing in excess of
three pounds per thousand cigarettes.
(3)  Except as otherwise provided under this chapter, the tax levied under
Subsection (1) shall be paid by any person who is the manufacturer, jobber,
importer, distributor, wholesaler, retailer, user, or consumer.
(4)  The tax rates specified in this section shall be increased by the
commission by the same amount as any future reduction in the federal excise
tax on cigarettes.
(5) (a)  There is created within the General Fund a restricted account known
as the "Cigarette Tax Restricted Account."
(b)  Beginning on July 1, 1998, $250,000 of the revenues generated by the
increase in the cigarette tax under this section enacted during the 1997
Annual General Session shall be annually deposited into the account.
(c)  The Department of Health shall expend the funds deposited in the account
under Subsection (5)(b) for a tobacco prevention and control media campaign
targeted towards children.
(d)  The following revenue generated from the tax increase imposed under
Subsection (1) during the 2002 General Session shall be deposited in the
Cigarette Tax Restricted Account:
(i)  22% of the revenue to be annually appropriated to the Department of
Health for tobacco prevention, reduction, cessation, and control programs;
(ii)  15% of the revenue to be annually appropriated to the University of Utah
Health Sciences Center for the Huntsman Cancer Institute for cancer research;
and
(iii)  21% of the revenue to be annually appropriated to the University of
Utah Health Sciences Center for medical education at the University of Utah
School of Medicine.
(e)  Any balance remaining in the Cigarette Tax Restricted Account at the end
of the fiscal year shall be appropriated during the next fiscal year for the
purposes set forth in Subsections (5)(d)(i) through (5)(d)(iii) in proportion
to the amount of revenue deposited into the account for each purpose.
(f)  The Legislature shall give particular consideration to appropriating any
revenues resulting from the change in tax rates under Subsection (2) adopted
during the 2002 Annual General Session and not otherwise appropriated pursuant
to Subsection (5)(d) to enhance Medicaid provider reimbursement rates and
medical coverage for the uninsured.
(g)  Any program or entity that receives funding under Subsection (5)(d) shall
provide an annual report to the Health and Human Services Interim Committee no
later that September 1 of each year.  The report shall include:
(i)  the amount funded;
(ii)  the amount expended;
(iii)  a description of the effectiveness of the program; and
(iv)  if the program is a tobacco cessation program, the report required in
Section 51-9-203.
