59-14-214.   Nonparticipating manufacturer equity assessment.
(1)  As used in this section, "nonparticipating manufacturer" means a tobacco
product manufacturer, as defined in Subsection 59-22-202(9), that is not a
participating manufacturer within the meaning of Subsection II(jj) of the
Master Settlement Agreement, as defined in Subsection 59-22-202(5).
(2) (a)  There is levied an equity assessment, at the rate of 1.75 cents on
each cigarette, for all cigarette packages of nonparticipating manufacturers
to which a stamp is affixed as required under Section 59-14-205.
(b)  The equity assessment imposed by this section is in addition to all other
assessments, fees, and taxes levied under existing law.
(c)  The equity assessment imposed by this section shall be paid by affixing a
stamp in the manner and at the time described in Section 59-14-205.
(d)  Except as otherwise provided in this section, the equity assessment shall
be collected, paid, administered, and enforced in the same manner as the tax
on cigarettes levied by Section 59-14-204.
(3)  The purposes of this equity assessment are:
(a)  to recover health care costs to the state imposed by nonparticipating
manufacturers;
(b)  to prevent nonparticipating manufacturers from undermining the state's
policy of reducing underage smoking by offering cigarettes for sale
substantially below the prices of cigarettes of other manufacturers;
(c)  to protect funding, which is reduced as a result of the growth of
nonparticipating manufacturer cigarette sales, for programs funded in whole or
in part by payments to the state under the Master Settlement Agreement, as
defined in Subsection 59-22-202(5);
(d)  to recoup settlement-payment revenue lost to the state as a result of
nonparticipating manufacturer cigarette sales; and
(e)  to fund enforcement and administration of:
(i)  Chapter 14, Part 6, Tobacco Manufacturer Stamping Enforcement Provisions;
(ii)  Sections 59-22-201 through 59-22-203, related to nonparticipating
manufacturers; and
(iii)  the equity assessment imposed by this section.
(4) (a)  Each manufacturer, distributor, wholesaler, or retail dealer who
under Section 59-14-205 affixes a stamp to a package of cigarettes, shall
report monthly to the commission for each place of business, the number and
denominations of stamps affixed to individual packages of nonparticipating
manufacturer cigarettes sold by the manufacturer, distributor, wholesaler, or
retail dealer in the preceding month, including the manufacturer and brand
family.
(b)  A person required to file a report under this section is subject to the
penalties under Section 59-1-401 for failing to file a report in a timely
manner, or for supplying false or fraudulent information.
