67-19a-401.   Time limits for submission of appeal by aggrieved employee --
Voluntary termination of employment -- Group grievances.
(1)  Subject to the standing requirements contained in Part 3 and the
restrictions contained in this part, a career service employee may have a
grievance addressed by following the procedures specified in this part.
(2)  The employee and the person to whom the grievance is directed may agree
in writing to waive or extend grievance steps 2, 3, or 4 or the time limits
specified for those grievance steps, as outlined in Section 67-19a-402.
(3)  Any writing made pursuant to Subsection (2) must be submitted to the
administrator.
(4) (a)  Unless the employee meets the requirements for excusable neglect
established by rule, if the employee fails to process the grievance to the
next step within the time limits established in this part, he has waived his
right to process the grievance or to obtain judicial review of the grievance.
(b)  Unless the employee meets the requirements for excusable neglect
established by rule, if the employee fails to process the grievance to the
next step within the time limits established in this part, the grievance is
considered to be settled based on the decision made at the last step.
(5) (a)  Unless the employee meets the requirements for excusable neglect
established by rule, an employee may submit a grievance for review under this
chapter only if the employee submits the grievance:
(i)  within 20 working days after the event giving rise to the grievance; or
(ii)  within 20 working days after the employee has knowledge of the event
giving rise to the grievance.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (5)(a), an employee may not submit a grievance
more than one year after the event giving rise to the grievance.
(6)  A person who has voluntarily terminated his employment with the state may
not submit a grievance after he has terminated his employment.
(7) (a)  When several employees allege the same grievance, they may submit a
group grievance by following the procedures and requirements of this chapter.
(b)  In submitting a group grievance, each aggrieved employee shall sign the
complaint.
(c)  The administrator and board may not treat a group grievance as a class
action, but may select one aggrieved employee's grievance and address that
grievance as a test case.
