67-19a-402.   Procedural steps to be followed by aggrieved employee.
(1) (a)  A career service employee who believes he has a grievance shall
attempt to resolve the grievance through discussion with his supervisor.
(b)  Within five days after the employee discusses the grievance with him, the
employee's supervisor may issue a verbal decision on the grievance.
(2) (a)  If the grievance remains unanswered for five working days after its
submission, or if the aggrieved employee is dissatisfied with the supervisor's
verbal decision, the employee may resubmit the grievance in writing to his
immediate supervisor within five working days after the expiration of the
period for response or receipt of the decision, whichever is first.
(b)  Within five working days after the employee's written grievance is
submitted, the employee's supervisor shall issue a written response to the
grievance stating his decision and the reasons for the decision.
(c)  Immediately after submitting the written grievance to his supervisor, the
employee shall notify the administrator of the board that he has submitted the
written grievance.
(3) (a)  If the written grievance submitted to the employee's supervisor
remains unanswered for five working days after its submission, or if the
aggrieved employee is dissatisfied with the decision issued, the employee may
submit the grievance in writing to his agency or division director within ten
working days after the expiration of the period for decision or receipt of the
decision, whichever is first.
(b)  Within five working days after the employee's written grievance is
submitted, the employee's agency or division director shall issue a written
response to the grievance stating his decision and the reasons for the
decision.
(4) (a)  If the written grievance submitted to the employee's agency or
division director remains unanswered for five working days after its
submission, or if the aggrieved employee is dissatisfied with the decision
issued, the employee may submit the grievance in writing to his department
head within ten working days after the expiration of the period for decision
or receipt of the decision, whichever is first.
(b)  Within ten working days after the employee's written grievance is
submitted, the department head shall issue a written response to the grievance
stating his decision and the reasons for the decision.
(c)  The decision of the department head is final in all matters except those
matters that the board may review under the authority of Part 3.
(5)  If the written grievance submitted to the employee's department head
meets the subject matter requirements of Section 67-19a-302 and if the
grievance remains unanswered for ten working days after its submission, or if
the aggrieved employee is dissatisfied with the decision issued, the employee
may submit the grievance in writing to the administrator within ten working
days after the expiration of the period for decision or receipt of the
decision, whichever is first.
