67-19a-406.   Procedural steps to be followed by aggrieved employee -- Hearing before hearing officer -- Evidentiary and procedural rules.

(1) (a)  The administrator shall employ a certified court reporter to record the hearing and prepare an official transcript of the hearing.

(b)  The official transcript of the proceedings and all exhibits, briefs, motions, and pleadings received by the hearing officer are the official record of the proceeding.

(2) (a)  The agency has the burden of proof in all grievances.

(b)  The agency must prove the agency's case by substantial evidence.

(3) (a)  The hearing officer shall issue a written decision within 20 working days after the hearing is adjourned.

(b)  If the hearing officer does not issue a decision within 20 working days, the agency that is a party to the grievance is not liable for any claimed back wages or benefits after the date the decision is due.

(4)  The hearing officer may:

(a)  not award attorney fees or costs to either party;

(b)  close a hearing by complying with the procedures and requirements of Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act;

(c)  seal the file and the evidence produced at the hearing if the evidence raises questions about an employee's character, professional competence, or physical or mental health;

(d)  grant continuances according to rule; and

(e)  decide a motion, an issue regarding discovery, or another issue in accordance with this chapter.

(5) (a)  A hearing officer shall affirm, rescind, or modify agency action.

(b) (i)  If a hearing officer does not affirm agency action, the hearing officer shall order back pay and back benefits that the grievant would have received without the agency action.

(ii)  An order under Subsection (5)(b)(i) shall include:

(A)  reimbursement to the grievant for premiums that the grievant paid for benefits allowed under the Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1985; and

(B)  an offset for any state paid benefits the grievant receives because of the agency action, including unemployment compensation benefits.

(c)  In an order under Subsection (5)(b)(i), a hearing officer may not reduce the amount of back pay and benefits awarded a grievant because of income that the grievant earns during the grievance process.



Amended by Chapter 109, 2013 General Session

