53A-8a-502.   Dismissal procedures.

(1)  A district shall provide employees with a written statement specifying:

(a)  the causes under which a career employee's contract may not be renewed or continued beyond the current school year;

(b)  the causes under which a career or provisional employee's contract may be terminated during the contract term; and

(c)  the orderly dismissal procedures that are used by the district in cases of contract termination, discontinuance, or nonrenewal.

(2)  A career employee's contract may be terminated during its term for reasons of unsatisfactory performance or discontinued beyond the current school year for reasons of unsatisfactory performance as provided in Section 53A-8a-503.

(3) (a)  A district is not required to provide a cause for not offering a contract to a provisional employee.

(b)  If a district intends to not offer a contract for a subsequent term of employment to a provisional employee, the district shall give notice of that intention to the employee at least 60 days before the end of the provisional employee's contract term.

(4)  In the absence of a notice, an employee is considered employed for the next contract term with a salary based upon the salary schedule applicable to the class of employee into which the individual falls.

(5)  If a district intends to not renew or discontinue the contract of a career employee or to terminate a career or provisional employee's contract during the contract term:

(a)  the district shall give written notice of the intent to the employee;

(b)  the notice shall be served by personal delivery or by certified mail addressed to the employee's last-known address as shown on the records of the district;

(c)  the district shall give notice at least 30 days prior to the proposed date of termination;

(d)  the notice shall state the date of termination and the detailed reasons for termination;

(e)  the notice shall advise the employee that the employee has a right to a fair hearing and that the hearing is waived if it is not requested within 15 days after the notice of termination was either personally delivered or mailed to the employee's most recent address shown on the district's personnel records; and

(f)  the notice shall state that failure of the employee to request a hearing in accordance with procedures set forth in the notice constitutes a waiver of that right and that the district may then proceed with termination without further notice.

(6) (a)  The procedure under which a contract is terminated during its term may include a provision under which the active service of the employee is suspended pending a hearing if it appears that the continued employment of the individual may be harmful to students or to the district.

(b)  Suspension pending a hearing may be without pay if an authorized representative of the district determines, after providing the employee with an opportunity for an informal conference to discuss the allegations, that it is more likely than not that the allegations against the employee are true.

(c)  If termination is not subsequently ordered, the employee shall receive back pay for the period of suspension without pay.

(7)  The procedure under which an employee's contract is terminated during its term shall provide for a written notice of suspension or final termination including findings of fact upon which the action is based.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 425, 2012 General Session

