53A-8a-802.   PAR Program guidelines -- Report.

(1)  The PAR Program is created to:

(a)  conduct regular evaluations of novice teachers and underperforming veteran teachers;

(b)  provide support and mentoring to novice teachers and underperforming veteran teachers; and

(c)  make recommendations for continued employment or dismissal of novice teachers and underperforming veteran teachers.

(2)  Subject to future budget constraints, the Legislature shall appropriate money for a five-year period to the State Board of Education for the PAR Program.

(3)  The State Board of Education shall:

(a)  solicit proposals from school districts for the use of grant money to develop and implement PAR Programs; and

(b)  award grants to school districts on a competitive basis.

(4)  In awarding a grant under Subsection (3)(b), the State Board of Education shall consider:

(a)  the applicant's capacity to effectively achieve the purposes of the PAR Program as described in Subsection (1);

(b)  whether the district has a rigorous and standards-based teacher evaluation system already in place; and

(c)  other criteria as determined by the State Board of Education.

(5)  To receive a grant, a school district shall submit a proposal to the State Board of Education on how the district intends to develop and implement a PAR Program, within the specifications of Section 53A-8a-803.

(6)  A selected district may use grant money:

(a)  to develop and design a PAR Program to fit the needs of the district, which may include hiring consultants;

(b)  to fund additional pay or stipends, computers, travel reimbursement, and office space for consulting teachers;

(c)  for program administration and clerical support staff;

(d)  for stipends for PAR Joint Panel members;

(e)  to pay substitute teachers for PAR Joint Panel members to attend meetings or for teachers enrolled in the PAR Program to visit and observe other classes; and

(f)  for training costs.

(7)  After each year of the pilot program, the State Board of Education shall make a report to the Education Interim Committee evaluating the impact of the PAR Program on retaining high quality teachers and dismissing ineffective teachers in a timely manner.

(8)  The State Board of Education shall make rules specifying:

(a)  procedures for applying for and awarding grants under this part;

(b)  criteria for awarding grants; and

(c)  reporting requirements for grantees.

