26-29-1.   Buildings and facilities to which chapter applies -- Standards
available to interested parties -- Building board staff to advise, review, and
approve plans when possible.
(1) (a) The standards in this chapter apply to all buildings and facilities
used by the public that are constructed or remodeled in whole or in part by
the use of state funds, or the funds of any political subdivision of the
state.
(b)  All of those buildings and facilities constructed in Utah after May 12,
1981, shall conform to the standard prescribed in this chapter except
buildings, facilities, or portions of them, not intended for public use,
including:
(i)  caretaker dwellings;
(ii)  service buildings; and
(iii)  heating plants.
(2) This chapter applies to temporary or emergency construction as well as
permanent buildings.
(3) (a)  The standards established in this chapter apply to the remodeling or
alteration of any existing building or facility within the jurisdictions set
forth in this chapter where the remodeling or alteration will affect an area
of the building or facility in which there are architectural barriers for
persons with a physical disability.
(b)  If the remodeling involves less than 50% of the space of the building or
facility, only the areas being remodeled need comply with the standards.
(c)  If remodeling involves 50% or more of the space of the building or
facility, the entire building or facility shall be brought into compliance
with the standards.
(4) (a)  All individuals and organizations are encouraged to apply the
standards prescribed in this chapter to all buildings used by the public, but
that are financed from other than public funds.
(b)  The State Building Board shall:
(i)  make the standards established by this chapter available to interested
individuals and organizations; and
(ii)  upon request and to the extent possible, make available the services of
the building board staff to advise, review, and approve plans and
specifications in order to comply with the standards of this chapter.
