17-52-303.   Study committee -- Members -- Powers and duties -- Report -- Services provided by county.

(1) (a)  Each study committee shall consist of at least seven but no more than 11 members.

(b)  A member of a study committee may not receive compensation for service on the committee.

(c)  The county legislative body shall reimburse each member of a study committee for necessary expenses incurred in performing the member's duties on the study committee.

(2)  A study committee may:

(a)  adopt rules for its own organization and procedure and to fill a vacancy in its membership;

(b)  establish advisory boards or committees and include on them persons who are not members of the study committee; and

(c)  request the assistance and advice of any officers or employees of any agency of state or local government.

(3)  Each study committee shall:

(a)  study the form of government within the county and compare it with other forms available under this chapter;

(b)  determine whether the administration of local government in the county could be strengthened, made more clearly responsive or accountable to the people, or significantly improved in the interest of economy and efficiency by a change in the form of county government;

(c)  hold public hearings and community forums and other means the committee considers appropriate to disseminate information and stimulate public discussion of the committee's purposes, progress, and conclusions; and

(d)  file a written report of its findings and recommendations with the county executive and the county legislative body no later than one year after the convening of its first meeting under Section 17-52-302.

(4)  Each study committee report under Subsection (3)(d) shall include:

(a)  the study committee's recommendation as to whether the form of county government should be changed to another form authorized under this chapter;

(b)  if the study committee recommends changing the form of government, a complete detailed draft of a proposed plan to change the form of county government, including all necessary implementing provisions; and

(c)  any additional recommendations the study committee considers appropriate to improve the efficiency and economy of the administration of local government within the county.

(5) (a)  If the study committee's report recommends a change in the form of county government, the study committee may conduct additional public hearings after filing the report under Subsection (3)(d) and, following the hearings and subject to Subsection (5)(b), alter the report.

(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (5)(a), the study committee may not make an alteration to the report:

(i)  that would recommend the adoption of an optional form different from that recommended in the original report; or

(ii)  within the 120-day period before the election under Section 17-52-206.

(6)  Each meeting held by the study committee shall be open to the public.

(7)  The county legislative body shall provide for the study committee:

(a)  suitable meeting facilities;

(b)  necessary secretarial services;

(c)  necessary printing and photocopying services;

(d)  necessary clerical and staff assistance; and

(e)  adequate funds for the employment of independent legal counsel and professional consultants that the study committee reasonably determines to be necessary to help the study committee fulfill its duties.

