54-8a-13.   Underground Facilities Damage Dispute Board -- Arbitration --
Relationship with Public Service Commission.
(1)  There is created within the commission the Underground Facilities Damage
Dispute Board to arbitrate a dispute arising from:
(a)  an operator's or excavator's violation of this chapter; and
(b)  damage caused by excavation during an emergency.
(2)  The board consists of five members appointed by the governor as follows:
(a)  one member from a list of names provided to the governor by a group
representing operators;
(b)  one member from a list of names provided to the governor by the
Associated General Contractors;
(c)  one member from a list of names provided to the governor by Blue Stakes
of Utah;
(d)  one member from a list of names provided to the governor by the Utah Home
Builders Association; and
(e)  one member from the Division of Public Utilities.
(3) (a)  A member of the board:
(i)  shall be appointed for a three-year term; and
(ii)  may continue to serve until the member's successor takes office.
(b)  At the time of appointment, the governor shall stagger the terms of the
members to ensure that approximately 1/3 of the members of the board are
reappointed each year.
(c)  A vacancy in the board shall be filled:
(i)  for the unexpired term; and
(ii)  in the same manner as the board member is initially appointed.
(d)  The board shall select an alternate for a specific board member to serve
on a specific case if it becomes necessary to replace a member who has a
conflict of interest because a dispute involves that member or that member's
employer.
(4)  Three members of the board constitute a quorum.
(5)  The board may, upon agreement of the disputing parties, arbitrate a
dispute regarding damages, not including personal injury damages, arising
between:
(a)  an operator;
(b)  an excavator;
(c)  a property owner; or
(d)  any other interested party.
(6)  At least four members of the board shall be present and vote on an
arbitration decision.
(7)  An arbitration before the board shall be consistent with Title 78B,
Chapter 11, Utah Uniform Arbitration Act.
(8)  The prevailing party in an arbitration conducted under this section shall
be awarded its costs and attorney fees in an amount determined by the board.
(9) (a)  A member of the board who is not a state officer or employee or local
government officer or employee shall receive no compensation or benefits for
the member's service, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the
performance of the member's duties at the rates established by the Division of
Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.  Members may decline to
receive per diem and expenses for their services.
(b)  A state officer or employee or local government officer or employee
member of the board who does not receive salary, per diem, or expenses from
their agency or employer for their service on the board may receive per diem
and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's duties at the rates
established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
State and local government officer or employee members may decline to receive
per diem and expenses for their services.
(10)  The commission shall provide administrative support to the board.
