78B-7-204.   Content of order.
(1)  A child protective order or an ex parte child protective order may
contain the following provisions the violation of which is a class A
misdemeanor under Section 77-36-2.4:
(a)  enjoin the respondent from threatening to commit or committing abuse of
the minor;
(b)  prohibit the respondent from harassing, telephoning, contacting, or
otherwise communicating with the minor, directly or indirectly;
(c)  prohibit the respondent from entering or remaining upon the residence,
school, or place of employment of the minor and the premises of any of these
or any specified place frequented by the minor;
(d)  upon finding that the respondent's use or possession of a weapon may pose
a serious threat of harm to the minor, prohibit the respondent from
purchasing, using, or possessing a firearm or other specified weapon; and
(e)  determine ownership and possession of personal property and direct the
appropriate law enforcement officer to attend and supervise the petitioner's
or respondent's removal of personal property.
(2)  A child protective order or an ex parte child protective order may
contain the following provisions the violation of which is contempt of court:
(a)  determine temporary custody of a minor who is the subject of the
petition;
(b)  determine parent-time with a minor who is the subject of the petition,
including denial of parent-time if necessary to protect the safety of the
minor, and require supervision of parent-time by a third party;
(c)  determine support in accordance with Title 78B, Chapter 12, Utah Child
Support Act; and
(d)  order any further relief the court considers necessary to provide for the
safety and welfare of the minor.
(3)  A child protective order and an ex parte child protective order shall
include:
(a)  a statement that violation of a criminal provision is a class A
misdemeanor and violation of a civil provision is contempt of court; and
(b)  information the petitioner is able to provide to facilitate
identification of the respondent, such as Social Security number, driver
license number, date of birth, address, telephone number, and physical
description.
(4)  A child protective order shall include:
(a)  the date the order expires;
(b)  a statement that the address provided by the petitioner will not be made
available to the respondent; and
(c)  the following statement: "Respondent was afforded notice and opportunity
to be heard in the hearing that gave rise to this order.  Pursuant to the
Violence Against Women Act of 1994, P.L. 103-322, 108 Stat. 1796, 18 U.S.C.A.
2265, this order is valid in all the United States, the District of Columbia,
tribal lands, and United States territories.  This order complies with the
Uniform Interstate Enforcement of Domestic Violence Protection Orders Act."
