78B-7-205.   Service -- Income withholding -- Expiration.
(1)  If the court enters an ex parte child protective order or a child
protective order, the court shall:
(a)  make reasonable efforts to ensure that the order is understood by the
petitioner and the respondent, if present;
(b)  as soon as possible transmit the order to the county sheriff for service;
and
(c)  by the end of the next business day after the order is entered, transmit
electronically a copy of the order to any law enforcement agency designated by
the petitioner and to the statewide domestic violence network described in
Section 78B-7-113.
(2)  The county sheriff shall serve the order and transmit verification of
service to the statewide domestic violence network described in Section
78B-7-113 in an expeditious manner.  Any law enforcement agency may serve the
order and transmit verification of service to the statewide domestic violence
network if the law enforcement agency has contact with the respondent or if
service by that law enforcement agency is in the best interests of the child.
(3)  When an order is served on a respondent in a jail, prison, or other
holding facility, the law enforcement agency managing the facility shall
notify the petitioner of the respondent's release.  Notice to the petitioner
consists of a prompt, good faith effort to provide notice, including mailing
the notice to the petitioner's last-known address.
(4)  Child support orders issued as part of a child protective order are
subject to mandatory income withholding under Title 62A, Chapter 11, Part 4,
Income Withholding in IV-D Cases, and Title 62A, Chapter 11, Part 5, Income
Withholding in Non IV-D Cases.
(5)  After notice and hearing a court may modify or vacate a child protective
order without a showing of substantial and material change in circumstances,
except that the criminal provisions of the child protective order may not be
vacated within two years of issuance unless the petitioner:
(a)  is personally served with notice of the hearing as provided in Rule 4,
Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, and the petitioner personally appears before
the court and gives specific consent to the vacation of the criminal
provisions of the protective order; or
(b)  submits a verified affidavit, stating agreement to the vacation of the
criminal provisions of the protective order.
(6)  The child protective order expires 150 days after the date of the order
unless a different date is set by the court.  The court may not set a date
more than 150 days after the date of the order without a finding of good
cause.  The court may review and extend the expiration date, but may not
extend it to more than 150 days after the date of the order without a finding
of good cause.
(7)  Notwithstanding Subsections (5) and (6), unless the judge orders
otherwise all child protective orders expire when the subject of the order is
18 years of age, unless the judge vacates the order earlier.
