4-31-16.5.   Brucellosis -- Vaccination required for certain cattle --
Testing required to import certain cattle.
(1)  As used in this section, "test-eligible" has the meaning defined in 9
C.F.R. Sec. 78.1.
(2) (a)  Instate origin replacement cattle that are kept for breeding stock
shall be official calfhood vaccinated for brucellosis.
(b)  Female cattle from within the state that are not kept for breeding stock
will not be required to be vaccinated.
(c)  For purposes of this Subsection (2), the department may make rules in
accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act,
governing non-legible brucellosis tattoos and may accept brucellosis
vaccination record forms as evidence that brucellosis vaccinations were
performed.
(3)  All female beef-breed cattle imported into the state are required to be
official calfhood vaccinated for brucellosis except female cattle:
(a)  less than four months of age;
(b)  going directly to slaughter;
(c)  going to a qualified feedlot; or
(d)  going to an approved auction to be vaccinated on arrival or designated
for slaughter only.
(4) (a)  Test-eligible cattle imported from states designated as brucellosis-
free under 9 C.F.R. Sec. 78.43 that are acquired directly from the farm of
origin are not required to be tested for brucellosis before movement into the
state.
(b)  Test-eligible cattle imported from states designated as brucellosis-free
under 9 C.F.R. Sec. 78.43 that are acquired through trading channels shall
test negative for brucellosis within 30 days before movement into the state.
(5)  Test-eligible cattle imported from states that have not been designated
as brucellosis-free under 9 C.F.R. Sec. 78.43 shall test negative for
brucellosis within 30 days before movement into the state.
(6)  The department may investigate situations where fees for brucellosis
vaccinations are considered to be excessive.
(7)  The department may make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, for beef-breed cattle that are acquired
for specialized breeding purposes, and may exempt those cattle from
brucellosis vaccination requirements.
(8)  The department shall make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to implement this section.
