31A-29-104.   Creation of pool -- Board of directors -- Appointment -- Terms
-- Quorum -- Plan preparation.
(1)  There is created the "Utah Comprehensive Health Insurance Pool," a
nonprofit entity within the Insurance Department.
(2)  The pool shall be under the direction of a board of directors composed of
12 members.
(a)  The governor shall appoint 10 of the directors with the consent of the
Senate as follows:
(i)  two representatives of health insurance companies or health service
organizations;
(ii)  one representative of a health maintenance organization;
(iii)  one physician;
(iv)  one representative of hospitals;
(v)  one representative of the general public who is reasonably expected to
qualify for coverage under the pool;
(vi)  one parent or spouse of such an individual;
(vii)  one representative of the general public;
(viii)  one representative of employers; and
(ix)  one licensed producer with an accident and health line of authority.
(b)  The board shall also include:
(i)  the commissioner or the commissioner's designee; and
(ii)  the executive director of the Department of Health or the executive
director's designee.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current board
members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original
appointment was made.
(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(6)  The board shall elect annually a chair and vice chair from its
membership.
(7)  Six board members are a quorum for the transaction of business.
(8)  The action of a majority of the members of the quorum is the action of
the board.
