31A-29-113.   Benefits -- Additional types of pool insurance -- Preexisting
conditions -- Waiver -- Maximum benefits.
(1) (a)  The pool policy shall pay for eligible medical expenses rendered or
furnished for the diagnoses or treatment of illness or injury that:
(i)  exceed the deductible and copayment amounts applicable under Section
31A-29-114; and
(ii)  are not otherwise limited or excluded.
(b)  Eligible medical expenses are the allowed charges established by the
board for the health care services and items rendered during times for which
benefits are extended under the pool policy.
(2)  The coverage to be issued by the pool, its schedule of benefits,
exclusions, and other limitations shall be established by the board.
(3)  The commissioner shall approve the benefit package developed by the board
to ensure its compliance with this chapter.
(4)  The pool shall offer at least one benefit plan through a managed care
program as authorized under Section 31A-29-106.
(5)  This chapter may not be construed to prohibit the pool from issuing
additional types of pool policies with different types of benefits which in
the opinion of the board may be of benefit to the citizens of Utah.
(6) (a)  The board shall design and require an administrator to employ cost
containment measures and requirements including preadmission certification and
concurrent inpatient review for the purpose of making the pool more cost
effective.
(b)  Sections 31A-22-617 and 31A-22-618 do not apply to coverage issued under
this chapter.
(7) (a)  A pool policy may contain provisions under which coverage for a
preexisting condition is excluded if:
(i)  the exclusion relates to a condition, regardless of the cause of the
condition, for which medical advice, diagnosis, care, or treatment was
recommended or received, from an individual licensed or similarly authorized
to provide such services under state law and operating within the scope of
practice authorized by state law, within the six-month period ending on the
effective date of plan coverage; and
(ii)  except as provided in Subsection (8), the exclusion extends for a period
no longer than the six-month period following the effective date of plan
coverage for a given individual.
(b)  Subsection (7)(a) does not apply to a HIPAA eligible individual.
(8) (a)  A pool policy may contain provisions under which coverage for a
preexisting pregnancy is excluded during a ten-month period following the
effective date of plan coverage for a given individual.
(b)  Subsection (8)(a) does not apply to a HIPAA eligible individual.
(9) (a)  The pool will waive the preexisting condition exclusion described in
Subsections (7)(a) and (8)(a) for an individual that is changing health
coverage to the pool, to the extent to which similar exclusions have been
satisfied under any prior health insurance coverage if the individual applies
not later than 63 days following the date of involuntary termination, other
than for nonpayment of premiums, from health coverage.
(b)  If this Subsection (9) applies, coverage in the pool shall be effective
from the date on which the prior coverage was terminated.
(10)  Covered benefits available from the pool may not exceed a $1,500,000
lifetime maximum, which includes a per enrollee calendar year maximum
established by the board.
