63G-13-201.   Creation of commission.

(1)  There is created an advisory commission known as the "Utah Commission on Immigration and Migration." The commission is composed of 27 members as follows:

(a)  the president of the Senate;

(b)  the speaker of the House of Representatives;

(c)  the minority leader of the Senate;

(d)  the minority leader of the House of Representatives;

(e)  the governor or, at the discretion of the governor, the lieutenant governor;

(f)  the attorney general or the attorney general's designee;

(g)  the commissioner of the Department of Agriculture and Food appointed under Section 4-2-3, or the commissioner's designee;

(h)  the executive director of the Department of Commerce appointed under Section 13-1-3, or the executive director's designee;

(i)  the executive director of the Department of Heritage and Arts, or the executive director's designee;

(j)  the executive director of the Department of Workforce Services appointed under Section 35A-1-201, or the executive director's designee;

(k)  the director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development appointed under Section 63M-1-202, or the director's designee;

(l)  three members of the House of Representatives appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives, not more than two of whom may be from the same political party;

(m)  three members of the public appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives in accordance with Subsection (2);

(n)  three members of the Senate appointed by the president of the Senate, not more than two of whom may be from the same political party;

(o)  three members of the public appointed by the president of the Senate in accordance with Subsection (2); and

(p)  four members of the public appointed by the governor in accordance with Subsection (2), except that at least one of the four members appointed by the governor shall represent a migrant education program of the Utah State Board of Education, a school district, or charter school.

(2) (a)  The president of the Senate, speaker of the House of Representatives, and the governor shall appoint a member of the public:

(i)  who is a resident of the state; and

(ii)  with due regard for:

(A)  geographic representation;

(B)  diversity;

(C)  education, including academic post-graduate level degrees related to the immigrant community in Utah; and

(D)  knowledge and experience.

(b)  An appointment by the president of the Senate, the speaker of the House of Representatives, or the governor may include a representative from:

(i)  an immigrant or immigrant-serving, community-based organization;

(ii)  a philanthropic organization;

(iii)  an advocacy group;

(iv)  a business, including an immigrant entrepreneur;

(v)  a union;

(vi)  academia; or

(vii)  a faith-based organization.

(c)  The president of the Senate, the speaker of the House of Representatives, and the governor shall appoint a member of the public to a term of three years, except that of the members of the public first appointed:

(i)  the following are appointed to a three-year term:

(A)  one member appointed by the president of the Senate;

(B)  one member appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives; and

(C)  one member appointed by the governor;

(ii)  the following are appointed to a two-year term:

(A)  one member appointed by the president of the Senate;

(B)  one member appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives; and

(C)  one member appointed by the governor; and

(iii)  the following are appointed to a one-year term:

(A)  one member appointed by the president of the Senate;

(B)  one member appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives; and

(C)  two members appointed by the governor.

(d)  A member appointed from the public shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified.

(3)  A vacancy in the membership of the commission shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner provided for the original appointment.

(4) (a)  The governor or, at the discretion of the governor, the lieutenant governor shall chair the commission.

(b)  A majority of the members of the commission constitute a quorum.

(c)  A vote of the majority of the commission members present when a quorum is present is an action of the commission.

(5)  The commission shall meet at the call of the chair, except that the chair shall call a meeting at least quarterly.

(6)  A member of the commission may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(7)  The Office of the Attorney General shall staff the commission.



Amended by Chapter 212, 2012 General Session

