63G-13-202.   General powers and duties of the commission.

(1)  The commission shall:

(a)  conduct a thorough review of the economic, legal, cultural, and educational impact of illegal immigration on the state and its political subdivisions;

(b)  conduct a thorough examination of Utah and federal laws relating to immigration, migration, and guest worker programs;

(c)  develop a comprehensive, coordinated, and sustainable state plan to address:

(i)  immigration and the use of migrant workers in the state; and

(ii)  integration of immigrants;

(d)  make recommendations to the governor and the Legislature as to proposed legislation to implement the state plan described in Subsection (1)(c):

(i)  consistent with the respective constitutional powers, rights, and responsibilities of the United States and of the state; and

(ii)  to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the state;

(e)  advise the governor and the Legislature on proposed legislation related to immigration:

(i)  for the purpose of encouraging a comprehensive, coordinated, and sustainable state response to issues related to immigration; and

(ii)  upon request of:

(A)  the governor;

(B)  the president of the Senate;

(C)  the speaker of the House of Representatives;

(D)  the minority leader of the Senate; or

(E)  the minority leader of the House of Representatives; and

(f)  comply with Part 3, Migrant Worker Visa Pilot Project.

(2) (a)  The commission may request a state agency to provide the commission with information available to the state agency that the commission considers necessary to discharge the commission's duties under this section.

(b)  A state agency shall cooperate with the commission to furnish the commission with the information requested under Subsection (2)(a):

(i)  to the extent not inconsistent with law;

(ii)  within the limits of the state agency's statutory authority; and

(iii)  on as timely a basis as is necessary to accomplish the purposes of this chapter.

(3) (a)  In performing its powers and duties, the commission may invite testimony from the governor, legislators, state agencies, and members of the public.

(b)  The commission may consult with experts or other knowledgeable individuals in the public or private sector on any matter related to the commission's powers and duties under this section.

(c)  The commission may hold one or more public hearings that it considers advisable and in locations within the state that it chooses to afford interested persons an opportunity to appear and present views with respect to any subject relating to the commission's powers and duties under this section.

(4) (a)  The commission shall report periodically to the Legislature and governor on its activities and recommendations.

(b)  The commission shall submit an initial report to the Legislature and governor no later than six months from the date of the first meeting of the commission.

(c)  The commission shall submit a first annual report to the Legislature and governor six months from the day on which the initial report is submitted, or as soon as practicable after that date.

(d)  After the first annual report, the commission shall annually submit reports to the Legislature and the governor.

(e)  The commission shall provide any report submitted under this Subsection (4) to the public upon request.



Enacted by Chapter 19, 2011 General Session

