63G-13-303.   Commission advisory group to conduct study -- Commission to prepare recommendations.

(1) (a)  The commission shall create an advisory group to perform the studies required by this section.

(b)  The commission shall appoint at least one member of the commission to the advisory group.

(c)  The advisory group may work jointly with a similar group of the State of Nuevo Leon, Mexico.

(d)  A member of the advisory group may not receive per diem and travel expenses.

(2)  The advisory group shall:

(a)  study the process and results of the pilot project;

(b)  study the impact of existing federal law on the ability to meet the needs of Utah businesses and Mexican migrant workers;

(c)  study the current United States nonimmigrant visa application process from both the employer and employee perspective to understand:

(i)  the strengths and weaknesses of the existing law; and

(ii)  the United States nonimmigrant visa process and the implications to regional employment and security;

(d)  document the state and regional economic impact and security implications of existing law and processes;

(e)  educate both Utah and the State of Nuevo Leon populations on issues to create alignment around a shared vision; and

(f)  report its findings annually to the commission in a detailed report that includes recommendations to the commission on how to best address the challenges of immigration, employment, and security.

(3) (a)  The commission shall use the information generated by the advisory group pursuant to the pilot project to make recommendations to the governor by no later than one year after the day on which the pilot project memorandum of understanding is executed.

(b)  The commission shall consider including in the recommendations:

(i)  observations and market recommendations;

(ii)  one or more proposals to amend existing law as necessary to accomplish the recommendations made by the commission and to meet the realities of current economic necessities;

(iii)  a recommendation as to whether, and if so, to what extent, the current caps on the H-2B United States nonimmigrant visas should be raised; and

(iv)  a recommendation as to whether the wait time between receiving H-2 United States nonimmigrant visas should be shortened.

(c)  The governor may report the recommendations of the commission to the President of the United States, Congress, and the United States Attorney General.



Enacted by Chapter 19, 2011 General Session

