58-1-308.   Term of license -- Expiration of license -- Renewal of license
-- Reinstatement of license -- Application procedures.
(1) (a)  Each license issued under this title shall be issued in accordance
with a two-year renewal cycle established by rule.
(b)  A renewal period may be extended or shortened by as much as one year to
maintain established renewal cycles or to change an established renewal cycle.
(2) (a)  The expiration date of a license shall be shown on the license.
(b)  A license that is not renewed prior to the expiration date shown on the
license automatically expires.
(c)  A license automatically expires prior to the expiration date shown on the
license upon the death of a licensee who is a natural person, or upon the
dissolution of a licensee that is a partnership, corporation, or other
business entity.
(d)  If the existence of a dissolved partnership, corporation, or other
business entity is reinstated prior to the expiration date shown upon the
entity's expired license issued by the division, the division shall, upon
written application, reinstate the applicant's license, unless it finds that
the applicant no longer meets the qualifications for licensure.
(e)  Expiration of licensure is not an adjudicative proceeding under Title
63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(3) (a)  The division shall notify each licensee in accordance with procedures
established by rule that the licensee's license is due for renewal and that
unless an application for renewal is received by the division by the
expiration date shown on the license, together with the appropriate renewal
fee and documentation showing completion of or compliance with renewal
qualifications, the license will not be renewed.
(b)  Examples of renewal qualifications which by statute or rule the division
may require the licensee to document completion of or compliance with include:
(i)  continuing education;
(ii)  continuing competency;
(iii)  quality assurance;
(iv)  utilization plan and protocol;
(v)  financial responsibility;
(vi)  certification renewal; and
(vii)  calibration of equipment.
(4) (a) (i)  An application for renewal that complies with Subsection (3) is
complete.
(ii)  A renewed license shall be issued to applicants who submit a complete
application, unless it is apparent to the division that the applicant no
longer meets the qualifications for continued licensure.
(b) (i)  The division may evaluate or verify documentation showing completion
of or compliance with renewal requirements on an entire population or a random
sample basis, and may be assisted by advisory peer committees.
(ii)  If necessary, the division may complete its evaluation or verification
subsequent to renewal and, if appropriate, pursue action to suspend or revoke
the license of a licensee who no longer meets the qualifications for continued
licensure.
(c)  The application procedures specified in Subsection 58-1-301(2), apply to
renewal applications to the extent they are not in conflict with this section.
(5) (a)  Any license that is not renewed may be reinstated at any time within
two years after nonrenewal upon submission of an application for
reinstatement, payment of the renewal fee together with a reinstatement fee
determined by the department under Section 63J-1-504, and upon submission of
documentation showing completion of or compliance with renewal qualifications.
(b)  The application procedures specified in Subsection 58-1-301(2) apply to
the reinstatement applications to the extent they are not in conflict with
this section.
(c)  Except as otherwise provided by rule, a license that is reinstated no
later than 120 days after it expires shall be retroactively reinstated to the
date it expired.
(6) (a)  If not reinstated within two years, the holder may obtain a license
only if the holder meets requirements provided by the division by rule or by
statute for a new license.
(b)  Each licensee under this title who has been active in the licensed
occupation or profession while in the full-time employ of the United States
government or under license to practice that occupation or profession in any
other state or territory of the United States may reinstate the licensee’s
license without taking an examination by submitting an application for
reinstatement, paying the current annual renewal fee and the reinstatement
fee, and submitting documentation showing completion of or compliance with any
renewal qualifications at any time within six months after reestablishing
domicile within Utah or terminating full-time government service.
