58-1-402.   Administrative review -- Special appeals boards.

(1) (a)  Any applicant who has been denied a license to practice on the basis of credentials, character, or failure to pass a required examination, or who has been refused renewal or reinstatement of a license to practice on the basis that the applicant does not meet qualifications for continued licensure in any occupation or profession under the jurisdiction of the division may submit a request for agency review to the executive director within 30 days following notification of the denial of a license or refusal to renew or reinstate a license.

(b)  The executive director shall determine whether the circumstances for denying an application for an initial license or for renewal or reinstatement of a license would justify calling a special appeals board under Subsection (2).  The executive director's decision is not subject to agency review.

(2)  A special appeals board shall consist of three members appointed by the executive director as follows:

(a)  one member from the occupation or profession in question who is not on the board of that occupation or profession;

(b)  one member from the general public who is neither an attorney nor a practitioner in an occupation or profession regulated by the division; and

(c)  one member who is a resident lawyer currently licensed to practice law in this state who shall serve as chair of the special appeals board.

(3)  The special appeals board shall comply with the procedures and requirements of Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, in its proceedings.

(4) (a)  Within a reasonable amount of time following the conclusion of a hearing before a special appeals board, the board shall enter an order based upon the record developed at the hearing.  The order shall state whether a legal basis exists for denying the application for an initial license or for renewal or reinstatement of a license that is the subject of the appeal.  The order is not subject to further agency review.

(b)  The division or the applicant may obtain judicial review of the decision of the special appeals board in accordance with Sections 63G-4-401 and 63G-4-403.

(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(6)  If an applicant under Subsection (1) is not given a special appeals board, the applicant shall be given agency review under the ordinary agency review procedures specified by rule.

