58-3a-102.   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:

(1)  "Architect" means a person licensed under this chapter as an architect.

(2)  "Board" means the Architects Licensing Board created in Section 58-3a-201.

(3)  "Building" means a structure which has human occupancy or habitation as its principal purpose, and includes the structural, mechanical, and electrical systems, utility services, and other facilities required for the building, and is otherwise governed by the codes adopted under Title 58, Chapter 56, Uniform Building Standards Act.

(4)  "Complete construction plans" means a final set of plans and specifications for a building that normally includes:

(a)  floor plans;

(b)  elevations;

(c)  site plans;

(d)  foundation, structural, and framing detail;

(e)  electrical, mechanical, and plumbing design;

(f)  information required by the energy code;

(g)  specifications and related calculations as appropriate; and

(h)  all other documents required to obtain a building permit.

(5)  "Fund" means the Architects Education and Enforcement Fund created in Section 58-3a-103.

(6) (a)  "Practice of architecture" means rendering or offering to render the following services in connection with the design, construction, enlargement, or alteration of a building or group of buildings, and the space within and surrounding such buildings:

(i)  planning;

(ii)  facility programming;

(iii)  preliminary studies;

(iv)  preparation of designs, drawings, and specifications;

(v)  preparation of technical submissions and coordination of any element of technical submissions prepared by others including, as appropriate and without limitation, professional engineers, and landscape architects; and

(vi)  administration of construction contracts.

(b)  "Practice of architecture" does not include the practice of professional engineering as defined in Section 58-22-102, but a licensed architect may perform such professional engineering work as is incidental to the practice of architecture.

(7)  "Principal" means a licensed architect having responsible charge of an organization's architectural practice.

(8)  "Supervision of an employee, subordinate, associate, or drafter of an architect" means that a licensed architect is responsible for and personally reviews, corrects when necessary, and approves work performed by any employee, subordinate, associate, or drafter under the direction of the architect, and may be further defined by rule by the division in collaboration with the board.

(9)  "Unlawful conduct" as defined in Section 58-1-501 is further defined in Section 58-3a-501.

(10)  "Unprofessional conduct" as defined in Section 58-1-501 may be further defined by rule by the division in collaboration with the board.

