58-3a-502.    Penalty for unlawful conduct.

(1) (a)  If upon inspection or investigation, the division concludes that a person has violated Subsections 58-1-501(1)(a) through (d) or Section 58-3a-501 or any rule or order issued with respect to Section 58-3a-501, and that disciplinary action is appropriate, the director or the director’s designee from within the division for each alternative respectively, shall promptly issue a citation to the person according to this chapter and any pertinent rules, attempt to negotiate a stipulated settlement, or notify the person to appear before an adjudicative proceeding conducted under Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.

(i)  A person who violates Subsections 58-1-501(1)(a) through (d) or Section 58-3a-501 or any rule or order issued with respect to Section 58-3a-501, as evidenced by an uncontested citation, a stipulated settlement, or by a finding of violation in an adjudicative proceeding, may be assessed a fine pursuant to this Subsection (1) and may, in addition to or in lieu of, be ordered to cease and desist from violating Subsections 58-1-501(1)(a) through (d) or Section 58-3a-501 or any rule or order issued with respect to this section.

(ii)  Except for a cease and desist order, the licensure sanctions cited in Section 58-3a-401 may not be assessed through a citation.

(b)  A citation shall:

(i)  be in writing;

(ii)  describe with particularity the nature of the violation, including a reference to the provision of the chapter, rule, or order alleged to have been violated;

(iii)  clearly state that the recipient must notify the division in writing within 20 calendar days of service of the citation if the recipient wishes to contest the citation at a hearing conducted under Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act; and

(iv)  clearly explain the consequences of failure to timely contest the citation or to make payment of any fines assessed by the citation within the time specified in the citation.

(c)  The division may issue a notice in lieu of a citation.

(d)  Each citation issued under this section, or a copy of each citation, may be served upon any person whom a summons may be served in accordance with the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure and may be made personally or upon the person’s agent by a division investigator or by any person specially designated by the director or by mail.

(e)  If within 20 calendar days from the service of the citation, the person to whom the citation was issued fails to request a hearing to contest the citation, the citation becomes the final order of the division and is not subject to further agency review.  The period to contest a citation may be extended by the division for cause.

(f)  The division may refuse to issue or renew, suspend, revoke, or place on probation the license of a licensee who fails to comply with a citation after it becomes final.

(g)  The failure of an applicant for licensure to comply with a citation after it becomes final is a ground for denial of license.

(h)  No citation may be issued under this section after the expiration of six months following the occurrence of any violation.

(i)  The director or the director’s designee shall assess fines according to the following:

(i)  for a first offense handled pursuant to Subsection (1)(a), a fine of up to $1,000;

(ii)  for a second offense handled pursuant to Subsection (1)(a), a fine of up to $2,000; and

(iii)  for any subsequent offense handled pursuant to Subsection (1)(a), a fine of up to $2,000 for each day of continued offense.

(2)  An action initiated for a first or second offense which has not yet resulted in a final order of the division shall not preclude initiation of any subsequent action for a second or subsequent offense during the pendency of any preceding action.  The final order on a subsequent action shall be considered a second or subsequent offense, respectively, provided the preceding action resulted in a first or second offense, respectively.

(3)  Any penalty which is not paid may be collected by the director by either referring the matter to a collection agency or bringing an action in the district court of the county in which the person against whom the penalty is imposed resides or in the county where the office of the director is located.  Any county attorney or the attorney general of the state shall provide legal assistance and advice to the director in any action to collect the penalty.  In any action brought to enforce the provisions of this section, reasonable attorney's fees and costs shall be awarded to the division.

