73-4-4.   Summons -- Service -- Publication -- Form -- Delivery of form for claimant's statement.

(1) (a)  Claimants whose names appear on the list prescribed by Section 73-4-3 at the time the list is filed by the state engineer with the clerk of the court shall be served with a summons issued out of the district court and served as a summons is served in other civil cases.

(b)  Upon the filing by the state engineer of an affidavit that the state engineer has searched the records of the state engineer's office and has listed all names as required by Section 73-4-3, and upon proof of publication of notice to all claimants to notify the state engineer of their names and addresses, summons may be served on all other persons and claimants not listed on said list by publication of summons:

(i)  in a newspaper or newspapers designated by the judge of the court as most likely to give notice to the persons served, five times, once each week for five successive weeks; and

(ii)  in accordance with Section 45-1-101 for five weeks.

(c)  Service of summons is completed upon the date of the publication.

(d)  The summons shall be substantially in the following form:

"In the District Court of .......... County, State of Utah, in the matter of the general adjudication of water rights in the described water source.

SUMMONS

The State of Utah to the said defendant:

You are hereby summoned to appear and defend the above entitled action which is brought for the purpose of making a general determination of the water rights of the described water source.  Upon the service of this summons upon you, you will thereafter be subject to the jurisdiction of the entitled court and it shall be your duty to follow further proceedings in the above entitled action and to protect your rights therein.  When the state engineer has completed the survey you will be given a further written notice, either in person or by mail, sent to your last-known address, that you must file a water users claim in this action setting forth the nature of your claim, and said notice will specify the date upon which your water users claim is due and thereafter you must file said claim within the time set and your failure so to do will constitute a default in the premises and a judgment may be entered against you declaring and adjudging that you have no right in or to the waters of described water source."

(2)  At the time the said notice of completion of survey is given, the state engineer must mail or otherwise deliver a form upon which the claimant shall present in writing, as provided in the next succeeding section, all the particulars relating to the appropriation of the water of said river system or water source to which the claimant lays claim.



Amended by Chapter 388, 2009 General Session

