58-41-2.   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:

(1)  "ASHA" means the American Speech and Hearing Association.

(2)  "Association" means the Utah Speech and Hearing Association.

(3)  "Audiologist" means a person who practices audiology or who holds himself out to the public directly or indirectly by any means, act, title, identification, performance, method, or procedure as one who nonmedically examines, measures, tests, interprets, evaluates, assesses, diagnoses, directs, instructs, treats, counsels, prescribes, and recommends for persons affected by or suspected of having disorders of or conditions of impaired hearing, or assists persons in achieving the reception, communication, and perception of sound and determines the range, nature, and degree of hearing function related to communication needs, or provides audiology services and uses audio electronic equipment and provides audiology services and consultation regarding noise control and hearing conservation, conducts tests and interpretation of vestibular function and nystagmus, prepares ear impressions and provides ear molds, aids, accessories, prescriptions, and prostheses for hearing, evaluates sound environment and equipment, and calibrates instruments used in testing and supplementing auditory function.  A person is deemed to be an audiologist if he directly or indirectly provides or offers to provide these services or functions set forth in Subsection (4) or any related function.

(4)  "Audiology" means the application of principles, methods, and procedures, and measuring, testing, examining, interpreting, diagnosing, predicting, evaluating, prescribing, consulting, treating, instructing, and researching, which is related to hearing, vestibular function, and the disorders of hearing, to related language and speech disorders and to aberrant behavior related to loss of hearing or vestibular function, for the purpose of preventing and modifying disorders related to loss of hearing or vestibular function, and  planning, directing, managing, conducting, and participating in hearing conservation, evoked potentials evaluation, nonmedical tinnitus evaluation or treatment, noise control, habilitation, and rehabilitation programs, including hearing aid evaluation, assistive listening device evaluation, prescription, preparation, and dispensing, and auditory training and lip reading.

(5)  "Audiology aide" means an individual who:

(a)  meets the minimum qualifications established by the board for audiology aides.  Those qualifications shall be substantial but less than those established by this chapter for licensing an audiologist;

(b)  does not act independently; and

(c)  works under the personal direction and direct supervision of a licensed audiologist who accepts responsibility for the acts and performance of that audiology aide under this chapter.

(6)  "Board" means the Speech-language Pathology and Audiology Licensing Board created under Section 58-41-6.

(7)  "CCC" means the certificate of clinical competence awarded by the American Speech and Hearing Association.

(8)  "CFY" means the clinical fellowship year prescribed by ASHA.

(9)  "Disorder" means the condition of decreased, absent, or impaired auditory, speech, voice, or language function.

(10)  "Hearing aid dealer" means one who sells, repairs, and adjusts hearing aids.

(11)  "Licensed audiologist" means any individual to whom a license has been issued under this chapter if that license is in force and has not been suspended or revoked.

(12)  "Licensed speech-language pathologist" means any individual licensed under this chapter whose license is in force and has not been suspended or revoked.

(13)  "Person" means any individual, group, organization, partnership, or corporate body, except that only an individual may be licensed under this chapter.

(14)  "Practice of audiology" means rendering or offering to render to individuals, groups, agencies, organizations, industries, or the public any performance or service in audiology.

(15)  "Practice of speech-language pathology" means rendering, prescribing, or offering to render to individuals, groups, agencies, organizations, industries or the public any service in speech-language pathology.

(16)  "Prescribe" means to:

(a)  determine, specify, and give the directions, procedures, or rules for a person to follow in determining and ordering the preparation, delivery, and use of specific mechanical, acoustic, or electronic aids to hearing or speech; and

(b)  determine or designate a remedy for a person.

(17)  "Prescription" means a written or oral order for the delivery or execution of that which has been prescribed.

(18)  "Speech-language pathologist" means:

(a)  a person who practices speech-language pathology or who holds himself out to the public by any means, or by any service or function he performs, directly or indirectly, or by using the terms "speech-language pathologist," "speech-language therapist," "language disability specialist," or any variation, derivation, synonym, coinage, or whatever expresses, employs, or implies these terms, names, or functions; or

(b)  a person who performs any of the functions described in Subsection (19) or any related functions.

(19)  "Speech-language pathology" means the application of principles, methods, and procedures for the examination, measurement, prevention, testing, identification, evaluation, diagnosis, treatment, instruction, modification, prescription, restoration, counseling, habilitation, prediction, management, and research related to the development and the disorders or disabilities of human communication, speech, voice, language, cognitive communication, or oral, pharyngeal, or laryngeal sensorimotor competencies, for the purpose of identifying, evaluating, diagnosing, prescribing, preventing, managing, correcting, ameliorating, or modifying those disorders and their effects in individuals or groups of individuals.

(20)  "Speech-language pathology aide" means an individual who:

(a)  meets the minimum qualifications established by the board for speech-language pathology aides.  Those qualifications shall be substantial but less than those established by this chapter for licensing a speech-language pathologist;

(b)  does not act independently; and

(c)  works under the personal direction and direct supervision of a licensed speech-language pathologist who accepts the responsibility for the acts and performances of that speech-language pathology aide while working under this chapter.

(21)  "Treatment" means the services of a speech-language pathologist or audiologist to examine, diagnose, correct, or ameliorate speech or hearing disorders, abnormalities, behavior, or their effects.

(22)  "Unprofessional conduct" as defined in Section 58-1-501 and as may be further defined by rule includes:

(a)  failing to maintain a level of professional practice consistent with all initial and subsequent requirements by which a license is achieved or maintained under this chapter;

(b)  utilizing substandard or inappropriate facilities or equipment;

(c)  treating any disorder for which the licensee has not had the necessary training and experience; or

(d)  failing to comply with the requirements of Section 58-41-17.



Amended by Chapter 249, 1998 General Session

