3-1-13.   Directors.
(1) (a) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(c), the business of the
association shall be managed by a board of not less than three directors.
(ii)  At least two-thirds of the directors shall be members of the
association, or officers, directors, or members of a member association.
(b)  A director shall hold office for the term for which he or she was named
or elected and until a successor is elected.
(c)  If an association has less than three associations of producers as its
members, the association may be managed by a board of two directors, each of
whom shall be an officer, director, or member of a member association.
(2)  Directors shall be elected by the members at the first meeting of the
members held after the incorporation of the association.
(3)  Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the articles, or bylaws, shall
specify the:
(a)  number;
(b)  qualifications;
(c)  terms of office;
(d)  manner of election;
(e)  time and place of meeting; and
(f)  powers and duties of the directors.
(4)  Unless otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws, a director shall be
elected for a term of one year.
(5) (a) (i)  Unless otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws and except as
provided in Subsection (5)(b), a vacancy on the board, other than by
expiration of term, shall be filled by the remaining members of the board.
(ii)  A director elected by the remaining members of the board shall serve
until a successor is elected by the members at the next annual meeting of the
members, or at a special meeting.
(b) (i)  If the bylaws provide for the election of directors within districts,
the board shall call a special meeting of the members in the district to elect
a person qualified to fill the vacancy.
(ii)  Unless otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws, a director elected
by a district shall serve until a successor is elected at the next regular
meeting at which a director or directors are to be elected.
(6) (a)  If not restricted by the articles, the bylaws may provide that the:
(i)  area in which the association has members shall be divided into
districts; and
(ii)  directors shall be elected within those districts.
(b)  The directors may be elected either directly or by district delegates
elected by the members in that district.
(c)  The bylaws shall specify, or authorize the board of directors to
determine:
(i)  the number of directors to be elected within each district;
(ii)  the apportionment of the directors; and
(iii)  the method of changing district boundaries.
(d)  The bylaws may provide that primary elections shall be held in each
district to nominate its directors, and that the result of the primary
elections may be:
(i)  ratified at the next regular meeting of the association; or
(ii)  considered to be the final election.
(7) (a)  The bylaws may provide for an executive committee to be elected by
the board of directors from its members and may delegate to this committee the
functions and powers of the board.
(b)  The executive committee shall be subject to  the general direction and
control of the board.
