3-1-13.5.   Conflicts of interest.
(1)  A director does not have a conflict of interest and is entitled to vote
on any matter for which the action to be taken or decision to be made by the
board relates to matters which have application to other members which are
similarly situated to the director or to the member association which the
director represents.
(2)  Except as provided in Subsection (1), each director on the board of an
association has a duty to serve the association as a whole and not the
individual members of the association.  This duty applies even when the
director's own personal interests as a member or representative of a member
may be contrary to the interests of the association.
(3) (a)  As used in this section, "interested director" means a director who
has a direct financial interest in a transaction or contract being considered
by the board or committee of an association, whether as a member of the
association or as a representative of a member association.
(b)  Interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a
quorum at a meeting of the board of directors or a committee which authorizes,
approves, or ratifies a contract or transaction.
(c)  Interested directors shall be excluded from a board or committee meeting
during the discussion and vote on a matter in which the director has a direct
financial interest, unless a majority of the disinterested directors on the
board vote that the interested director may remain at the meeting.
(4)  Except as provided in Subsections (1) and (3)(c), every contract or
transaction between the association and one or more of its directors shall be
void, or voidable by the association, if:
(a)  the director is present at or participates in the discussion at the board
or committee meeting which authorizes, approves, or ratifies the contract or
transaction; or
(b)  the vote of the interested director is counted in the vote of the board
or the committee.
(5)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4), a transaction between the association and
one or more of its directors is not void, or voidable by the association, if:
(a)  the material facts as to the relationship or interest of the director and
as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the board of
directors or the committee, and the board or committee in good faith
authorizes, approves, or ratifies the contract or transaction by the
affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors, even if the
disinterested directors are less than a quorum;
(b)  the material facts as to the relationship or interest of the director and
as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the members of
the association entitled to vote, and the contract or transaction is
specifically authorized, approved, or ratified in good faith by a vote of the
members; or
(c)  the contract or transaction is fair to the association.
