3-1-17.   Contracts with association.
(1) (a)  The bylaws may require members to execute contracts with the
association in which the members agree to patronize the facilities created by
the association, and to sell all or a specified part of their products to or
through it, or to buy all or a specified part of their supplies from or
through the association or any facilities created by it.
(b)  If the members contract to sell through the association, the fact that
for certain purposes the relation between the association and its members may
be one of agency does not prevent the passage from the member to the
association of absolute and exclusive title to the products which are the
subject matter of the contract.
(c)  Such title shall pass to the association upon delivery of the product, or
at any other time specified in the contract.
(d)  If the period of the contract exceeds three years, the bylaws and the
contracts executed thereunder shall specify a reasonable period, not less than
10 days in each year, after the third year, during which the member, by giving
to the association such reasonable notice as the association may prescribe,
may withdraw from the association; provided, that if the bylaws or contracts
executed hereunder so specify, a member may not withdraw from the association
while indebted thereto.
(e)  In the absence of such a withdrawal provision, a member may withdraw at
any time after three years.
(2)  The contract may fix, as liquidated damages, which may not be regarded as
penalties, specific sums to be paid by the members to the association upon the
breach of any provision of the contract regarding the use of any facilities of
the association or the sale, delivery, handling, or withholding of products;
and may further provide that the member who breaks his contract shall pay all
costs, including premiums for bonds, and reasonable attorney's fees, to be
fixed by the court, in case the association prevails in any action upon the
contract.
(3) (a)  A court of competent jurisdiction may grant an injunction to prevent
the breach or further breach of the contract by a member and may decree
specific performance thereof.
(b)  Pending the adjudication of such an action and upon filing a verified
complaint showing the breach or threatened breach, and a bond in such form and
amount as may be approved by the court, the court may grant a temporary
restraining order or preliminary injunction against the member.
(4)  No remedy, either legal or equitable, herein provided for, shall be
exclusive, but the association may avail itself of any and all such remedies,
at the same or different times, in any action or proceeding.
(5)  In any action upon such marketing contracts, it shall be conclusively
presumed that a landowner or landlord or lessor is able to control the
delivery of products produced on his land by tenants or others, whose tenancy
or possession or work on such land or the terms of whose tenancy or possession
or labor thereon were created or changed after execution by the landowner or
landlord or lessor of such a marketing contract; and in such actions, the
foregoing remedies for nondelivery or breach shall lie and be enforceable
against such landowner, landlord, or lessor.
(6) (a)  The association may file contracts to sell agricultural products to
or through the association in the office of the county recorder of the county
in which the products are produced.
(b)  If the association has uniform contracts with more than one member in any
county, it may, in lieu of filing the original contracts, file the affidavit
of its president, vice president or secretary, containing or having attached
thereto:
(i)  a true copy of the uniform contract entered into with its members
producing such product in that county; and
(ii)  the names of the members who have executed such contract and a
description of the land on which the product is produced, if such description
is contained in the contract.
(c)  The association may file from time to time thereafter affidavits
containing revised or supplementary lists of the members producing such
product in that county without setting forth therein a copy of the uniform
contract but referring to the filed or recorded copy thereof.
(d)  All affidavits filed under this section shall state in substance that
they are filed pursuant to the provisions of this section.
(e)  The county recorder shall file such affidavits and make endorsements
thereon and record and make entries thereof in the same manner as is required
by law in the case of chattel mortgages, and he shall compile and make
available for public inspection a convenient index containing the names of all
signers of such contracts, and collect for his services hereunder the same
fees as for chattel mortgages.
(f)  The filing of any such contract, or such affidavit, shall constitute
constructive notice of the contents thereof, and of the association's title or
right to the product embraced in such contract, to all subsequent purchasers,
encumbrancers, creditors, and to all persons dealing with the members with
reference to such product.
(g)  No title, right, or lien of any kind shall be acquired to or on the
product thereafter except through the association or with its consent, or
subject to its rights; and the association may recover the possession of such
property from any and all subsequent purchasers, encumbrancers, and creditors,
and those claiming under them, in whose possession the same may be found, by
any appropriate action for the recovery of personal property, and it may have
relief by injunction and for damages.
