3-1-45.   Sale, mortgage, and lease of assets.
(1) (a)  The association may sell, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, dispose
of, or repay a debt with any of the property and assets of an association, if
this action is made in the usual and regular course of business of the
association.
(b)  The action taken under Subsection (a) may be made upon the terms and
conditions and for consideration as are authorized by the board of directors.
(2)  Consideration may include money or property, real or personal, including
shares of any other association or corporation, domestic or foreign, as is
authorized by the association's board of directors.
(3)  If the articles of incorporation provide for the mortgage or pledge of
the property of the association by its directors, then the mortgage or pledge
of all, or substantially all, of the property or assets, with or without the
good will of an association, is considered to be made in the usual and regular
course of its business.
(4)  If the action taken under Subsection (1) is not made in the usual regular
course of the association's business, the action may still be taken if the
following requirements are complied with:
(a)  The board of directors shall adopt a resolution recommending the action,
and the members shall vote at an annual or special meeting of members.
(b)  Written or printed notice of the meeting shall be given to each member
entitled to vote as provided in this chapter.
(c) (i)  At the meeting in which the action is considered, the members may
authorize the action described in Subsection (1) and set the terms, or may
authorize the board of directors to set the terms, conditions, and
consideration to be received by the association.
(ii)  A two-thirds majority vote of the members is required to approve the
action specified in Subsection (1).
(d)  The board of directors may abandon the action, even if approved by the
members, subject to the rights of third parties under any related contracts,
without further action or approval by members.
