48-3a-502.   Transfer of transferable interest.

(1)  Subject to Subsection 48-3a-503(6), a transfer, in whole or in part, of a transferable interest:

(a)  is permissible;

(b)  does not by itself cause a member's dissociation or a dissolution and winding up of the limited liability company's activities and affairs; and

(c)  subject to Section 48-3a-504, does not entitle the transferee to:

(i)  participate in the management or conduct of the limited liability company's activities and affairs; or

(ii)  except as otherwise provided in Subsection (3), have access to records or other information concerning the limited liability company's activities and affairs.

(2)  A transferee has the right to receive, in accordance with the transfer, distributions to which the transferor would otherwise be entitled.

(3)  In a dissolution and winding up of a limited liability company, a transferee is entitled to an account of the limited liability company's transactions only from the date of dissolution.

(4)  A transferable interest may be evidenced by a certificate of the interest issued by the limited liability company in a record, and, subject to this section, the interest represented by the certificate may be transferred by a transfer of the certificate.

(5)  A limited liability company need not give effect to a transferee's rights under this section until the limited liability company knows or has notice of the transfer.

(6)  A transfer of a transferable interest in violation of a restriction on transfer contained in the operating agreement is ineffective as to a person having knowledge or notice of the restriction at the time of transfer.

(7)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsection 48-3a-602(5)(b), if a member transfers a transferable interest, the transferor retains the rights of a member other than the transferable interest transferred and retains all the duties and obligations of a member.

(8)  If a member transfers a transferable interest to a person that becomes a member with respect to the transferred interest, the transferee is liable for the member's obligations under Section 48-3a-403 and Subsection 48-3a-406(3) known to the transferee when the transferee becomes a member.



Enacted by Chapter 412, 2013 General Session

