48-3a-702.   Election to purchase in lieu of dissolution.

(1)  In a proceeding under Subsection 48-3a-701(5) to dissolve a limited liability company, the limited liability company may elect or, if it fails to elect, one or more members may elect to purchase the interest in the limited liability company owned by the applicant member at the fair market value of the interest, determined as provided in this section.  An election pursuant to this Subsection (1) is irrevocable unless the district court determines that it is equitable to set aside or modify the election.

(2)  An election to purchase pursuant to this section may be filed with the district court at any time within 90 days after the filing of the petition in a proceeding under Subsection 48-3a-701(5) or at any later time as the district court in its discretion may allow.  If the limited liability company files an election with the district court within the 90-day period, or at any later time allowed by the district court, to purchase the interest in the limited liability company owned by the applicant member, the limited liability company shall purchase the interest in the manner provided in this section.

(3)  If the limited liability company does not file an election with the district court within the time period, but an election to purchase the interest in the limited liability company owned by the applicant member is filed by one or more members within the time period, the limited liability company shall, within 10 days after the later of the end of the time period allowed for the filing of elections to purchase under this section or notification from the district court of an election by members to purchase the interest in the limited liability company owned by the applicant member as provided in this section, give written notice of the election to purchase to all members of the limited liability company, other than the applicant member.  The notice shall state the name and the percentage interest in the limited liability company owned by the applicant member and the name and the percentage interest in the limited liability company owned by each electing member.  The notice shall advise any recipients who have not participated in the election of their right to join in the election to purchase the interest in the limited liability company in accordance with this section and of the date by which any notice of intent to participate must be filed with the district court.

(4)  Members who wish to participate in the purchase of the interest in the limited liability company of the applicant member must file notice of their intention to join in the purchase by electing members no later than 30 days after the effective date of the limited liability company's notice of their right to join in the election to purchase.

(5)  All members who have filed with the district court an election or notice of their intention to participate in the election to purchase the interest in the limited liability company of the applicant member thereby become irrevocably obligated to participate in the purchase of the interest from the applicant member upon the terms and conditions of this section, unless the district court otherwise directs.

(6)  After an election has been filed by the limited liability company or one or more members, the proceedings under Subsection 48-3a-701(5) may not be discontinued or settled, nor may the applicant member sell or otherwise dispose of the applicant member's interest in the limited liability company, unless the district court determines that it would be equitable to the limited liability company and the members, other than the applicant member, to permit any discontinuance, settlement, sale, or other disposition.

(7)  If, within 60 days after the earlier of the limited liability company filing of an election to purchase the interest in the limited liability company of the applicant member or the limited liability company's mailing of a notice to its members of the filing of an election by the members to purchase the interest in the limited liability company of the applicant member, the applicant member and electing limited liability company or members reach agreement as to the fair market value and terms of the purchase of the applicant member's interest, the district court shall enter an order directing the purchase of the applicant member's interest, upon the terms and conditions agreed to by the parties.

(8)  If the parties are unable to reach an agreement as provided for in Subsection (7), upon application of any party, the district court shall stay the proceedings under Subsection 48-3a-701(5) and determine the fair market value of the applicant member's interest in the limited liability company as of the day before the date on which the petition under Subsection 48-3a-701(5) was filed or as of any other date the district court determines to be appropriate under the circumstances and based on the factors the district court determines to be appropriate.

(9)  Upon determining the fair market value of the interest in the limited liability company of the applicant member, the district court shall enter an order directing the purchase of the interest in the limited liability company upon terms and conditions the district court determines to be appropriate.  The terms and conditions may include payment of the purchase price in installments, where necessary in the interest of equity, provision for security to assure payment of the purchase price and any additional costs, fees, and expenses awarded by the district court, and an allocation of the interest in the limited liability company among members if the interest in the limited liability company is to be purchased by members.

(10)  In allocating the applicant member's interest in the limited liability company among holders of different classes of members, the district court shall attempt to preserve the existing distribution of voting rights among member classes to the extent practicable.  The district court may direct that holders of a specific class or classes may not participate in the purchase.  The district court may not require any electing member to purchase more of the interest in the limited liability company owned by the applicant member than the percentage interest that the purchasing member may have set forth in the purchasing member's election or notice of intent to participate filed with the district court.

(11)  Interest may be allowed at the rate and from the date determined by the district court to be equitable.  However, if the district court finds that the refusal of the applicant member to accept an offer of payment was arbitrary or otherwise not in good faith, interest may not be allowed.

(12)  If the district court finds that the applicant member had probable ground for relief under Subsection 48-3a-701(5), the district court may award to the applicant member reasonable fees and expenses of counsel and experts employed by the applicant member.

(13)  Upon entry of an order under Subsection (7) or (9), the district court shall dismiss the petition to dissolve the limited liability company under Subsection 48-3a-701(5) and the applicant member shall no longer have any rights or status as a member of the limited liability company, except the right to receive the amounts awarded to the applicant member by the district court.  The award is enforceable in the same manner as any other judgment.

(14)  The purchase ordered pursuant to Subsection (9) shall be made within 10 days after the date the order becomes final, unless before that time the limited liability company files with the district court a notice of its intention to file a statement of dissolution.  The statement of dissolution must then be adopted and filed within 60 days after notice.

(15)  Upon filing of a statement of dissolution, the limited liability company is dissolved and shall be wound up pursuant to Section 48-3a-703, and the order entered pursuant to Subsection (9) is no longer of any force or effect.  However, the district court may award the applicant member reasonable fees and expenses in accordance with Subsection (12).  The applicant member may continue to pursue any claims previously asserted on behalf of the limited liability company.

(16)  Any payment by the limited liability company pursuant to an order under Subsection (7) or (9), other than an award of fees and expenses pursuant to Subsection (12), is subject to the provisions of Sections 48-3a-405 and 48-3a-406.



Enacted by Chapter 412, 2013 General Session

