26-47-103.   Department to award grants for assistance to persons with
bleeding disorders.
(1)  For purposes of this section:
(a)  "Hemophilia services" means a program for medical care, including the
costs of blood transfusions, and the use of blood derivatives and blood
clotting factors.
(b)  "Person with a bleeding disorder" means a person:
(i)  who is medically diagnosed with hemophilia or a bleeding disorder;
(ii)  who is not eligible for Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance
Program; and
(iii)  who has either:
(A)  insurance coverage that excludes coverage for hemophilia services;
(B)  exceeded the person's insurance plan's annual maximum benefits;
(C)  exceeded the person's annual or lifetime maximum benefits payable under
Title 31A, Chapter 29, Comprehensive Health Insurance Pool Act; or
(D)  insurance coverage available under either private health insurance, Title
31A, Chapter 29, Comprehensive Health Insurance Pool Act, Utah mini COBRA
coverage under Section 31A-22-722, or federal COBRA coverage, but the premiums
for that coverage are greater than a percentage of the person's annual
adjusted gross income as established by the department by administrative rule.
(2) (a)  Within appropriations specified by the Legislature for this purpose,
the department shall make grants to public and nonprofit entities who assist
persons with bleeding disorders with the cost of obtaining hemophilia services
or the cost of insurance premiums for coverage of hemophilia services.
(b)  Applicants for grants under this section:
(i)  must be submitted to the department in writing; and
(ii)  must comply with Subsection (3).
(3)  Applications for grants under this section shall include:
(a)  a statement of specific, measurable objectives, and the methods to be
used to assess the achievement of those objectives;
(b)  a description of the personnel responsible for carrying out the
activities of the grant along with a statement justifying the use of any grant
funds for the personnel;
(c)  letters and other forms of evidence showing that efforts have been made
to secure financial and professional assistance and support for the services
to be provided under the grant;
(d)  a list of services to be provided by the applicant;
(e)  the schedule of fees to be charged by the applicant; and
(f)  other provisions as determined by the department.
(4)  The department may accept grants, gifts, and donations of money or
property for use by the grant program.
(5) (a)  The department shall establish rules in accordance with Title 63G,
Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, governing the application form,
process, and criteria it will use in awarding grants under this section.
(b)  The department shall submit an annual report on the implementation of the
grant program:
(i)  by no later than November 1; and
(ii)  to the Health and Human Services Interim Committee and the Health and
Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee.
