20A-13-102.2.   County clerk, Automated Geographic Reference Center, and lieutenant governor responsibilities -- Maps and voting precinct boundaries.

(1)  Each county clerk shall obtain a copy of the Congressional block assignment file for the clerk's county from the lieutenant governor's office.

(2) (a)  A county clerk may create one or more county maps that identify the boundaries of Utah's Congressional districts as generated from the Congressional block assignment file.

(b)  Before publishing or distributing any map or data created by the county clerk that identifies the boundaries of Utah's Congressional districts within the county, the county clerk shall submit the county map and data to the lieutenant governor and to the Automated Geographic Reference Center for review.

(c)  Within 30 days after receipt of a county map and data from a county clerk, the Automated Geographic Reference Center shall:

(i)  review the county map and data to evaluate if the county map and data accurately reflect the boundaries of Utah's Congressional districts established by the Legislature in the Congressional block assignment file;

(ii)  determine whether the county map and data are correct or incorrect; and

(iii)  communicate those findings to the lieutenant governor.

(d)  The lieutenant governor shall either notify the county clerk that the county map and data are correct or notify the county clerk that the county map and data are incorrect.

(e)  If the county clerk receives notice from the lieutenant governor that the county map and data submitted are incorrect, the county clerk shall:

(i)  make the corrections necessary to conform the county map and data to the Congressional block assignment file; and

(ii)  resubmit the corrected county map and data to the lieutenant governor and to the Automated Geographic Reference Center for a new review under this Subsection (2).

(3) (a)  Subject to the requirements of this Subsection (3), each county clerk shall establish voting precincts and polling places within each Utah Congressional district according to the procedures and requirements of Section 20A-5-303.

(b)  Within five working days after approval of voting precincts and polling places by the county legislative body as required by Section 20A-5-303, each county clerk shall submit a voting precinct map identifying the boundaries of each voting precinct within the county to the lieutenant governor and to the Automated Geographic Reference Center for review.

(c)  Within 30 days after receipt of a map from a county clerk, the Automated Geographic Reference Center shall:

(i)  review the voting precinct map to evaluate if the voting precinct map accurately reflects the boundaries of Utah's Congressional districts established by the Legislature in the Congressional block assignment file;

(ii)  determine whether the voting precinct map is correct or incorrect; and

(iii)  communicate those findings to the lieutenant governor.

(d)  The lieutenant governor shall either notify the county clerk that the voting precinct map is correct or notify the county clerk that the map is incorrect.

(e)  If the county clerk receives notice from the lieutenant governor that the voting precinct map is incorrect, the county clerk shall:

(i)  make the corrections necessary to conform the voting precinct map to the Congressional block assignment file; and

(ii)  resubmit the corrected voting precinct map to the lieutenant governor and to the Automated Geographic Reference Center for a new review under this Subsection (3).

