26-48-102.   Cat and Dog Community Spay and Neuter Program Restricted
Account -- Interest -- Use of contributions and interest.
(1)  There is created within the General Fund the Cat and Dog Community Spay
and Neuter Program Restricted Account.
(2)  The account shall be funded by contributions deposited into the Cat and
Dog Community Spay and Neuter Program Restricted Account in accordance with
Section 59-10-1310.
(3) (a)  The Cat and Dog Community Spay and Neuter Program Restricted Account
shall earn interest.
(b)  Interest earned on the Cat and Dog Community Spay and Neuter Program
Restricted Account shall be deposited into the Cat and Dog Community Spay and
Neuter Program Restricted Account.
(4)  The department shall distribute contributions and interest deposited into
the Cat and Dog Community Spay and Neuter Program Restricted Account to one or
more organizations that:
(a)  are exempt from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3), Internal
Revenue Code;
(b)  operate a mobile spay and neuter clinic for cats and dogs;
(c)  provide annual spay and neuter services at the mobile spay and neuter
clinic described in Subsection (4)(b):
(i)  to one or more communities in at least 20 counties in the state; and
(ii)  by veterinarians who are licensed by Title 58, Chapter 28, Veterinary
Practice Act; and
(d) (i)  spay and neuter cats and dogs owned by persons having low incomes;
and
(ii)  have established written guidelines for determining what constitutes a
person having a low income in accordance with any rules made by the department
as authorized by Subsection (5)(c).
(5) (a)  An organization described in Subsection (4) may apply to the
department to receive a distribution in accordance with Subsection (4).
(b)  An organization that receives a distribution from the department in
accordance with Subsection (4):
(i)  shall expend the distribution only to spay or neuter dogs and cats:
(A)  owned by persons having low incomes;
(B)  by veterinarians who are licensed by Title 58, Chapter 28, Veterinary
Practice Act;
(C)  through a statewide voucher program; and
(D)  at a location that:
(I)  is not a mobile spay and neuter clinic; and
(II)  does not receive any funding from a governmental entity; and
(ii)  may not expend the distribution for any administrative cost relating to
an expenditure authorized by Subsection (5)(b)(i).
(c)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the department may make rules:
(i)  providing procedures and requirements for an organization to apply to the
department to receive a distribution in accordance with Subsection (4); and
(ii)  to define what constitutes a person having a low income.
