54-8b-2.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1) (a)  "Aggregator" means any person or entity that:

(i)  is not a telecommunications corporation;

(ii)  in the ordinary course of its business makes operator assisted services available to the public or to customers and transient users of its business or property through an operator service provider; and

(iii)  receives from an operator service provider by contract, tariff, or otherwise, commissions or compensation for calls delivered from the aggregator's location to the operator service provider.

(b)  "Aggregator" may include any hotel, motel, hospital, educational institution, government agency, or coin or coinless telephone service provider so long as that entity qualifies under Subsection (1)(a).

(2)  "Basic residential service" means a local exchange service for a residential customer consisting of:

(a)  a single line with access to the public switched network;

(b)  touch-tone or the functional equivalent;

(c)  local flat-rate unlimited usage, exclusive of extended area service;

(d)  single-party service;

(e)  a free phone number listing in directories received for free;

(f)  access to operator services;

(g)  access to directory assistance;

(h)  access to lifeline and telephone relay assistance;

(i)  access to 911 and E911 emergency services;

(j)  access to long-distance carriers;

(k)  access to toll limitations services;

(l)  other services as may be determined by the commission; and

(m)  no feature.

(3)  "Certificate" means a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the commission authorizing a telecommunications corporation to provide specified public telecommunications services within a defined geographic service territory in the state.

(4)  "Division" means the Division of Public Utilities established in Section 54-4a-1.

(5)  "Essential facility or service" means any portion, component, or function of the network or service offered by a provider of local exchange services:

(a)  that is necessary for a competitor to provide a public telecommunications service;

(b)  that cannot be reasonably duplicated; and

(c)  for which there is no adequate economic alternative to the competitor in terms of quality, quantity, and price.

(6) (a)  "Feature" means a custom calling service available from the central office switch, including call waiting, call forwarding, three-way calling, and similar services.

(b)  "Feature" does not include long distance calling.

(7)  "Federal Telecommunications Act" means the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-104, 110 Stat. 56.

(8)  "Incumbent telephone corporation" means a telephone corporation, its successors or assigns, which, as of May 1, 1995, held a certificate to provide local exchange services in a defined geographic service territory in the state.

(9)  "Intrastate telecommunications service" means any public telecommunications service in which the information transmitted originates and terminates within the boundaries of this state.

(10)  "Local exchange service" means the provision of telephone lines to customers with the associated transmission of two-way interactive, switched voice communication within the geographic area encompassing one or more local communities as described in maps, tariffs, or rate schedules filed with and approved by the commission.

(11)  "Mobile telecommunications service" means a mobile telecommunications service:

(a)  that is defined as a mobile telecommunications service in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act, 4 U.S.C. Sec. 124; and

(b)  in which the information transmitted originates and terminates in one state.

(12) (a)  "New public telecommunications service" means a service offered by a telecommunications corporation which that corporation has never offered before.

(b)  "New public telecommunications service" does not include:

(i)  a tariff, price list, or competitive contract that involves a new method of pricing any existing public telecommunications service;

(ii)  a package of public telecommunications services that includes an existing public telecommunications service; or

(iii)  a public telecommunications service that is a direct replacement for:

(A)  a fully regulated service;

(B)  an existing service offered pursuant to a tariff, price list, or competitive contract; or

(C)  an essential facility or an essential service.

(13)  "Operator assisted services" means services which assist callers in the placement or charging of a telephone call, either through live intervention or automated intervention.

(14)  "Operator service provider" means any person or entity that provides, for a fee to a caller, operator assisted services.

(15)  "Price-regulated service" means any public telecommunications service governed by Section 54-8b-2.3.

(16)  "Public telecommunications service" means the two-way transmission of signs, signals, writing, images, sounds, messages, data, or other information of any nature by wire, radio, lightwaves, or other electromagnetic means offered to the public generally.

(17)  "Substantial compliance" with reference to a rule or order of the commission means satisfaction of all material obligations in a manner consistent with the rule or order.

(18)  "Telecommunications corporation" means any corporation or person, and their lessees, trustees, receivers, or trustees appointed by any court, owning, controlling, operating, managing, or reselling a public telecommunications service.

(19) (a)  "Total service long-run incremental cost" means the forward-looking incremental cost to a telecommunications corporation caused by providing the entire quantity of a public telecommunications service, network function, or group of public telecommunications services or network functions, by using forward-looking technology, reasonably available, without assuming relocation of existing plant and equipment.

(b)  The "long-run" means a period of time long enough so that cost estimates are based on the assumption that all inputs are variable.

