31A-23b-202.   Qualifications for a license.

(1) (a)  The commissioner shall issue or renew a license to a person to act as a navigator if the person:

(i)  satisfies the:

(A)  application requirements under Section 31A-23b-203;

(B)  character requirements under Section 31A-23b-204;

(C)  examination and training requirements under Section 31A-23b-205; and

(D)  continuing education requirements under Section 31A-23b-206;

(ii)  certifies that, to the extent applicable, the applicant:

(A)  is in compliance with the surety bond requirements of Section 31A-23b-207; and

(B)  will maintain compliance with Section 31A-23b-207 during the period for which the license is issued or renewed; and

(iii)  has not committed an act that is a ground for denial, suspension, or revocation as provided in Section 31A-23b-401.

(b)  A license issued under this chapter is valid for two years.

(2) (a)  A person shall report to the commissioner:

(i)  an administrative action taken against the person, including a denial of a new or renewal license application:

(A)  in another jurisdiction; or

(B)  by another regulatory agency in this state; and

(ii)  a criminal prosecution taken against the person in any jurisdiction.

(b)  The report required by Subsection (2)(a) shall be filed:

(i)  at the time the person files the application for an individual or agency license; and

(ii)  for an action or prosecution that occurs on or after the day on which the person files the application:

(A)  for an administrative action, within 30 days of the final disposition of the administrative action; or

(B)  for a criminal prosecution, within 30 days of the initial appearance before a court.

(c)  The report required by Subsection (2)(a) shall include a copy of the complaint or other relevant legal documents related to the action or prosecution described in Subsection (2)(a).

(3) (a)  The department may:

(i)  require a person applying for a license to submit to a criminal background check as a condition of receiving a license; or

(ii)  accept a background check conducted by another organization.

(b)  A person, if required to submit to a criminal background check under Subsection (3)(a), shall:

(i)  submit a fingerprint card in a form acceptable to the department; and

(ii)  consent to a fingerprint background check by:

(A)  the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification; and

(B)  the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

(c)  For a person who submits a fingerprint card and consents to a fingerprint background check under Subsection (3)(b), the department may request:

(i)  criminal background information maintained pursuant to Title 53, Chapter 10, Part 2, Bureau of Criminal Identification, from the Bureau of Criminal Identification; and

(ii)  complete Federal Bureau of Investigation criminal background checks through the national criminal history system.

(d)  Information obtained by the department from the review of criminal history records received under this Subsection (3) shall be used by the department for the purposes of:

(i)  determining if a person satisfies the character requirements under Section 31A-23b-204 for issuance or renewal of a license;

(ii)  determining if a person failed to maintain the character requirements under Section 31A-23b-204; and

(iii)  preventing a person who violates the federal Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1033, from engaging in the business of a navigator or in-person assistor in the state.

(e)  If the department requests the criminal background information, the department shall:

(i)  pay to the Department of Public Safety the costs incurred by the Department of Public Safety in providing the department criminal background information under Subsection (3)(c)(i);

(ii)  pay to the Federal Bureau of Investigation the costs incurred by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in providing the department criminal background information under Subsection (3)(c)(ii); and

(iii)  charge the person applying for a license a fee equal to the aggregate of Subsections (3)(e)(i) and (ii).

(4)  The commissioner may deny an application for a license under this chapter if the person applying for the license:

(a)  fails to satisfy the requirements of this section; or

(b)  commits an act that is grounds for denial, suspension, or revocation as set forth in Section 31A-23b-401.



Enacted by Chapter 341, 2013 General Session

