31A-23b-206.   Continuing education requirements.

(1)  The commissioner shall, by rule, prescribe continuing education requirements for a navigator.

(2) (a)  The commissioner may not require a degree from an institution of higher education as part of continuing education.

(b)  The commissioner may state a continuing education requirement in terms of hours of instruction received in:

(i)  accident and health insurance;

(ii)  qualification for and enrollment in public programs;

(iii)  qualification for and enrollment in premium subsidies;

(iv)  cultural competency;

(v)  conflict of interest standards; and

(vi)  other exchange functions.

(3) (a)  Continuing education requirements shall require:

(i)  that a licensee complete 24 credit hours of continuing education for every two-year licensing period;

(ii)  that 3 of the 24 credit hours described in Subsection (3)(a)(i) be ethics courses; and

(iii)  that the licensee complete at least half of the required hours through classroom hours of insurance and exchange related instruction.

(b)  An hour of continuing education in accordance with Subsection (3)(a)(i) may be obtained through:

(i)  classroom attendance;

(ii)  home study;

(iii)  watching a video recording;

(iv)  experience credit; or

(v)  another method approved by rule.

(c)  A licensee may obtain continuing education hours at any time during the two-year license period.

(d)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the commissioner shall, by rule:

(i)  publish a list of insurance professional designations whose continuing education requirements can be used to meet the requirements for continuing education under Subsection (3)(b); and

(ii)  authorize one or more continuing education providers, including a state or national professional producer or consultant associations, to:

(A)  offer a qualified program on a geographically accessible basis; and

(B)  collect a reasonable fee for funding and administration of a continuing education program, subject to the review and approval of the commissioner.

(4)  The commissioner shall approve a continuing education provider or a continuing education course that satisfies the requirements of this section.

(5)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the commissioner shall by rule establish the procedures for continuing education provider registration and course approval.

(6)  This section applies only to a navigator who is a natural person.

(7)  A navigator shall keep documentation of completing the continuing education requirements of this section for two years after the end of the two-year licensing period to which the continuing education applies.



Enacted by Chapter 341, 2013 General Session

