17-16a-3.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Appointed officer" means any person appointed to any statutory office or
position or any other person appointed to any position of employment with a
county, except special employees.  Appointed officers include, but are not
limited to persons serving on special, regular or full-time committees,
agencies, or boards whether or not such persons are compensated for their
services.  The use of the word "officer" in this part is not intended to make
appointed persons or employees "officers" of the county.
(2)  "Assist" means to act, or offer or agree to act, in such a way as to
help, represent, aid, advise, furnish information to, or otherwise provide
assistance to a person or business entity, believing that such action is of
help, aid, advice, or assistance to such person or business entity and with
the intent to so assist such person or business entity.
(3)  "Business entity" means a sole proprietorship, partnership, association,
joint venture, corporation, firm, trust, foundation, or other organization or
entity used in carrying on a business.
(4)  "Compensation" means anything of economic value, however designated,
which is paid, loaned, granted, given, donated or transferred to any person or
business entity for or in consideration of personal services, materials,
property, or any other thing whatsoever.
(5)  "Elected officer" means any person elected or appointed to any office in
the county.
(6)  "Governmental action" means any action on the part of a county including,
but not limited to:
(a)  any decision, determination, finding, ruling, or order; and
(b)  any grant, payment, award, license, contract, subcontract, transaction,
decision, sanction, or approval, or the denial thereof, or the failure to act
in respect to.
(7)  "Special employee" means any person hired on the basis of a contract to
perform a special service for the county pursuant to an award of a contract
following a public bid.
(8)  "Substantial interest" means the ownership, either legally or equitably,
by an individual, his spouse, and his minor children, of at least 10% of the
outstanding shares of a corporation or 10% interest in any other business
entity.
