58-74-102.   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:

(1)  "Board" means the Certified Court Reporters Licensing Board created in Section 58-74-201.

(2)  "Certified Shorthand Reporter" means any person licensed under this chapter who is engaged in the practice of shorthand reporting.

(3)  "Certified court reporter" means any person who engages in the practice of court reporting who is:

(a)  a shorthand reporter certified by the National Court Reporters Association; or

(b)  a voice reporter certified by the National Verbatim Reporters Association.

(4)  "Certified Voice Reporter" means any person licensed under this chapter who engages in the practice of voice reporting.

(5)  "Official court reporter" means a certified shorthand reporter employed by the courts.

(6)  "Official court transcriber" means a person certified in accordance with rules of the Judicial Council as competent to transcribe into written form an audio or video recording of court proceedings.

(7)  "Practice of court reporting" means the making of a verbatim record of any trial, legislative public hearing, state agency public hearing, deposition, examination before trial, hearing or proceeding before any grand jury, referee, board, commission, master or arbitrator, or other sworn testimony given under oath.

(8)  "Practice of shorthand reporting" means the practice of making a verbatim record, using symbols or abbreviations.

(9)  "Practice of voice reporting" means the practice of making a verbatim record, using voice writing.

(10)  "Voice writing" means the making of a verbatim record of the spoken word by means of repeating the words of the speaker into a device capable of either digital translation into English text or creation of a tape or digital recording.

(11)  "Unlawful conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-74-501.

(12)  "Unprofessional conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-74-502 and as may be further defined by rule.



Amended by Chapter 77, 2004 General Session

