38-1-11.   Enforcement -- Time for -- Lis pendens -- Action for debt not
affected -- Instructions and form affidavit and motion.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Owner" is as defined in Section 38-11-102.
(b)  "Residence" is as defined in Section 38-11-102.
(2)  A lien claimant shall file an action to enforce the lien filed under this
chapter within 180 days from the day on which the lien claimant filed a notice
of claim under Section 38-1-7.
(3) (a)  Within the time period provided for filing in Subsection (2) the lien
claimant shall file for record with the county recorder of each county in
which the lien is recorded a notice of the pendency of the action, in the
manner provided in actions affecting the title or right to possession of real
property, or the lien shall be void, except as to persons who have been made
parties to the action and persons having actual knowledge of the commencement
of the action.
(b)  The burden of proof is upon the lien claimant and those claiming under
the lien claimant to show actual knowledge under Subsection (3)(a).
(4) (a)  A lien filed under this chapter is automatically and immediately void
if an action to enforce the lien is not filed within the time required by this
section.
(b)  Notwithstanding Section 78B-2-111, a court has no subject matter
jurisdiction to adjudicate a lien that becomes void under Subsection (4)(a).
(5)  This section may not be interpreted to impair or affect the right of any
person to whom a debt may be due for any work done or materials furnished to
maintain a personal action to recover the debt.
(6) (a)  If a lien claimant files an action to enforce a lien filed under this
chapter involving a residence, the lien claimant shall include with the
service of the complaint on the owner of the residence:
(i)  instructions to the owner of the residence relating to the owner's rights
under Title 38, Chapter 11, Residence Lien Restriction and Lien Recovery Fund
Act; and
(ii)  a form to enable the owner of the residence to specify the grounds upon
which the owner may exercise available rights under Title 38, Chapter 11,
Residence Lien Restriction and Lien Recovery Fund Act.
(b)  The instructions and form required by Subsection (6)(a) shall meet the
requirements established by rule by the Division of Occupational and
Professional Licensing in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(c)  If a lien claimant fails to provide to the owner of the residence the
instructions and form required by Subsection (6)(a), the lien claimant shall
be barred from maintaining or enforcing the lien upon the residence.
(d)  Judicial determination of the rights and liabilities of the owner of the
residence under this chapter and Title 38, Chapter 11, Residence Lien
Restriction and Lien Recovery Fund Act, and Title 14, Chapter 2, Private
Contracts, shall be stayed until after the owner is given a reasonable period
of time to establish compliance with Subsections 38-11-204(4)(a) and (4)(b)
through an informal proceeding, as set forth in Title 63G, Chapter 4,
Administrative Procedures Act, commenced within 30 days of the owner being
served summons in the foreclosure action, at the Division of Occupational and
Professional Licensing and obtain a certificate of compliance or denial of
certificate of compliance, as defined in Section 38-11-102.
(e)  An owner applying for a certificate of compliance under Subsection (6)(d)
shall send by certified mail to all lien claimants:
(i)  a copy of the application for a certificate of compliance; and
(ii)  all materials filed in connection with the application.
(f)  The Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing shall notify all
lien claimants listed in an owner's application for a certificate of
compliance under Subsection (6)(d) of the issuance or denial of a certificate
of compliance.
(7)  The written notice requirement applies to liens filed on or after July 1,
2004.
