38-1-32.   Preliminary notice by subcontractor.
(1) (a) (i)  Except for a person who has a contract with an owner or an owner-
builder or a laborer compensated with wages, a subcontractor shall file a
preliminary notice with the database by the later of:
(A)  20 days after commencement of its own work or the commencement of
furnishing labor, service, equipment, and material to a construction project;
or
(B)  20 days after the filing of a notice of commencement if the
subcontractor's work commences before the filing of the first notice of
commencement.
(ii)  A preliminary notice filed within the period described in Subsection
(1)(a)(i) is effective as to all labor, service, equipment, and material
furnished to the construction project, including labor, service, equipment,
and material provided to more than one contractor or subcontractor.
(iii) (A)  If more than one notice of commencement is filed for a project, a
person may attach a preliminary notice to any notice of commencement filed for
the project by a party authorized in Section 38-1-31.
(B)  A preliminary notice attached to an untimely notice of commencement is
valid if there is also a valid and timely notice of commencement for the
project filed by a party authorized in Section 38-1-31.
(b)  If a person files a preliminary notice after the period prescribed by
Subsection (1)(a), the preliminary notice becomes effective five days after
the day on which the preliminary notice is filed.
(c)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(e), failure to file a preliminary
notice within the period required by Subsection (1)(a) precludes a person from
maintaining any claim for compensation earned for performance of labor or
service or supply of materials or equipment furnished to the construction
project before the expiration of five days after the late filing of a
preliminary notice, except as against the person with whom the person
contracted.
(d) (i) (A)  If a person who is required to file a preliminary notice under
this chapter fails to file the preliminary notice, that person may not hold a
valid lien under this chapter.
(B)  A county recorder need not verify that a valid preliminary notice is
filed when a person files a notice to hold and claim a lien under Section
38-1-7.
(ii)  The content of a preliminary notice shall include:
(A)  the building permit number for the project, or the number assigned to the
project by the designated agent;
(B)  the name, address, and telephone number of the person furnishing the
labor, service, equipment, or material;
(C)  the name and address of the person who contracted with the claimant for
the furnishing of the labor, service, equipment, or material;
(D)  the name of the record or reputed owner of the project;
(E)  the name of the original contractor under which the claimant is
performing or will perform its work; and
(F)  the address of the project or a description of the location of the
project.
(iii)  Upon request by person identified in Subsection (1)(a)(i), an original
contractor shall provide the person with the building permit number for the
project, or the number assigned to the project by the designated agent.
(e)  If a person provides labor, service, equipment, or material before the
filing of a notice of commencement and the notice of commencement is filed
more than 15 days after the day on which the person providing labor, service,
equipment, or material begins work on the project, the person providing labor,
service, equipment, or material need not file a preliminary notice to maintain
the person's right to hold a lien under this chapter or any other right,
including a right referenced under Subsection (1)(c).
(2) (a) (i)  Unless a person indicates to the division or designated agent
that the person does not wish to receive a notice under this section,
electronic notification of the filing of a preliminary notice or alternate
notice as prescribed in Subsection (1), shall be provided to:
(A)  the person filing the preliminary notice;
(B)  each person that filed a notice of commencement for the project; and
(C)  all interested persons who have requested notices concerning the project.
(ii)  A person to whom notice is required under Subsection (2)(a)(i) is
responsible for:
(A)  providing an e-mail address, mailing address, or telefax number to which
a notice required by Subsection (2)(a) is to be sent; and
(B)  the accuracy of any e-mail address, mailing address, or telefax number to
which notice is to be sent.
(iii)  The designated agent fulfills the notice requirement of Subsection
(2)(a)(i) when it sends the notice to the e-mail address, mailing address, or
telefax number provided to the designated agent whether or not the notice is
actually received.
(b)  The burden is upon the person filing the preliminary notice to prove that
the person has substantially complied with the requirements of this section.
(c)  Subject to Subsection (2)(d), a person required by this section to give
preliminary notice is only required to give one notice for each project.
(d)  If the labor, service, equipment, or material is furnished pursuant to
contracts under more than one original contract, the notice requirements must
be met with respect to the labor, service, equipment, or material furnished
under each original contract.
(3) (a)  If a construction project owner, original contractor, subcontractor,
or other interested person believes that a preliminary notice has been filed
erroneously, that owner, original contractor, subcontractor, or other
interested person can request from the person who filed the preliminary notice
evidence establishing the validity of the preliminary notice.
(b)  Within 10 days after the request described in Subsection (3)(a), the
person or entity that filed the preliminary notice shall provide the
requesting person or entity proof that the preliminary notice is valid.
(c)  If the person or entity that filed the preliminary notice does not
provide proof of the validity of the preliminary notice, that person or entity
shall immediately cancel the preliminary notice from the database in any
manner prescribed by the division pursuant to rule.
(4)  A person filing a preliminary notice by alternate filing is responsible
for verifying and changing any incorrect information in the preliminary notice
before the expiration of the time period during which the notice is required
to be filed.
(5)  Until June 1, 2008, nothing in this section affects a person's rights
under Title 38, Chapter 11, Residence Lien Restriction and Lien Recovery Fund
Act.
