38-1-33.   Notice of completion.
(1) (a)  Upon final completion of a construction project, and in accordance
with Section 38-1-40, the following with a construction project registered
with the database may file a notice of completion with the database:
(i)  an owner of the construction project;
(ii)  an original contractor of the construction project;
(iii)  a lender that has provided financing for the construction project;
(iv)  a surety that has provided bonding for the construction project; or
(v)  a title company issuing a title insurance policy on the construction
project.
(b)  Notwithstanding Section 38-1-2, if a subcontractor performs substantial
work after the applicable dates established by Subsection (1)(a), that
subcontractor's subcontract is considered an original contract for the sole
purpose of determining:
(i)  the subcontractor's time frame to file a notice to hold and claim a lien
under Subsection 38-1-7(1); and
(ii)  the original contractor's time frame to file a notice to hold and claim
a lien under Subsection 38-1-7(1) for that subcontractor's work.
(c)  A notice of completion shall include:
(i)  the building permit number for the project, or the number assigned to the
project by the designated agent;
(ii)  the name, address, and telephone number of the person filing the notice
of completion;
(iii)  the name of the original contractor for the project;
(iv)  the address of the project or a description of the location of the
project;
(v)  the date on which final completion is alleged to have occurred; and
(vi)  the method used to determine final completion.
(d)  For purposes of this section, final completion of the original contract
does not occur if work remains to be completed for which the owner is holding
payment to ensure completion of the work.
(e) (i)  Unless a person indicates to the division or designated agent that
the person does not wish to receive a notice under this section, electronic
notification of the filing of a notice of completion or alternate notice as
prescribed in Subsection (1)(a), shall be provided to:
(A)  each person that filed a notice of commencement for the project;
(B)  each person that filed preliminary notice for the project; and
(C)  all interested persons who have requested notices concerning the project.
(ii)  A person to whom notice is required under this Subsection (1)(e) is
responsible for:
(A)  providing an e-mail address, mailing address, or telefax number to which
a notice required by this Subsection (1)(e) is to be sent; and
(B)  the accuracy of any e-mail address, mailing address, or telefax number to
which notice is to be sent.
(iii)  The designated agent fulfills the notice requirement of Subsection
(1)(e)(i) when it sends the notice to the e-mail address, mailing address, or
telefax number provided to the designated agent, whether or not the notice is
actually received.
(iv)  Upon the filing of a notice of completion, the time periods for filing
preliminary notices stated in Section 38-1-27 are modified such that all
preliminary notices shall be filed subsequent to the notice of completion and
within 10 days from the day on which the notice of completion is filed.
(f)  A subcontract that is considered an original contract for purposes of
this section does not create a requirement for an additional preliminary
notice if a preliminary notice has already been given for the labor, service,
equipment, and material furnished to the subcontractor who performs
substantial work.
(2) (a)  If a construction project owner, original contractor, subcontractor,
or other interested person believes that a notice of completion has been filed
erroneously, that owner, original contractor, subcontractor, or other
interested person can request from the person who filed the notice of
completion evidence establishing the validity of the notice of completion.
(b)  Within 10 days after the request described in Subsection (2)(a), the
person who filed the notice of completion shall provide the requesting person
proof that the notice of completion is valid.
(c)  If the person that filed the notice of completion does not provide proof
of the validity of the notice of completion, that person shall immediately
cancel the notice of completion from the database in any manner prescribed by
the division pursuant to rule.
(3)  A person filing a notice of completion by alternate filing is responsible
for verifying and changing any incorrect information in the notice of
completion before the expiration of the time period during which the notice is
required to be filed.
