73-16-4.   Members of commission.
(1)  There shall be three members of the Bear River Compact commission from
the state of Utah.
(2)  One member shall be the interstate stream commissioner of Utah and he
shall be chairman of the Utah delegation.  The other two commissioners from
Utah shall be appointed by the state water and power board with the consent of
the governor, and they shall hold office at the pleasure of the water and
power board and until their successors shall have been appointed and
qualified.
(3)  Each member shall be a bona fide resident of the state of Utah and one
shall be a landowner and irrigator actually residing on and operating a farm
within the lower division as defined by the compact and one shall be a
landowner and irrigator actually residing on and operating a farm within the
upper division as defined by the compact.
(4)  The Utah water and power board may with the consent of the governor
appoint two alternate members of the Bear River commission.
(a)  One such alternate shall be a bona fide resident of the state of Utah and
a landowner and irrigator actually residing on and operating a farm within the
lower division as defined by the compact and he shall be entitled to act at
all regular and special meetings of the Bear River commission whenever the
regular member of the commission from this same area is unable to serve and
act.
(b)  One such alternate shall be a bona fide resident of the state of Utah and
shall be a landowner and irrigator actually residing on and operating a farm
within the upper division as defined by the compact and he shall be entitled
to act at all regular and special meetings of the Bear River commission
whenever the regular member of the commission from this same area is unable to
serve and act.
(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
