63C-11-201.   Commission -- Creation -- Appointments -- Terms -- Expenses --
Quorum.
(1)  There is created within the Governor's Office of Economic Development the
Pete Suazo Utah Athletic Commission consisting of five members.
(2) (a)  The governor shall appoint three commission members.
(b)  The president of the Senate and the speaker of the House of
Representatives shall each appoint one commission member.
(c)  The commission members may not be licensees under this chapter.
(d)  A member of the commission serving on June 30, 2009, shall continue as a
member of the commission until the expiration of the member's term then
existing, or until the expiration of any subsequent term to which the member
is appointed.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current members
expire, the governor, president, or speaker, respectively, shall appoint each
new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.
(b)  The governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust
the length of the governor's appointees' terms to ensure that the terms of
members are staggered so that approximately half of the commission is
appointed every two years.
(c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(d)  If a commission member fails or refuses to fulfill the responsibilities
and duties of a commission member, including the attendance at commission
meetings, the governor, president, or speaker, respectively, with the approval
of the commission, may remove the commission member and replace the member in
accordance with this section.
(4) (a)  A majority of the commission members constitutes a quorum.
(b)  A majority of a quorum is sufficient authority for the commission to act.
(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(6)  The commission shall annually designate one of its members to serve as
chair for a one-year period.
