63C-11-305.   Jurisdiction of commission.

(1) (a)  The commission has the sole authority concerning direction, management, control, and jurisdiction over all contests or exhibitions of unarmed combat to be conducted, held, or given within this state.

(b)  A contest or exhibition may not be conducted, held, or given within this state except in accordance with this chapter.

(2)  Any contest involving a form of unarmed self-defense must be conducted pursuant to rules for that form which are approved by the commission before the contest is conducted, held, or given.

(3) (a)  An area not less than six feet from the perimeter of the ring shall be reserved for the use of:

(i)  the designated commission member;

(ii)  other commission members in attendance;

(iii)  the director;

(iv)  commission employees;

(v)  officials;

(vi)  licensees participating or assisting in the contest; and

(vii)  others granted credentials by the commission.

(b)  The promoter shall provide security at the direction of the commission or designated commission member to secure the area described in Subsection (3)(a).

(4)  The area described in Subsection (3), the area in the dressing rooms, and other areas considered necessary by the designated commission member for the safety and welfare of a licensee and the public shall be reserved for the use of:

(a)  the designated commission member;

(b)  other commission members in attendance;

(c)  the director;

(d)  commission employees;

(e)  officials;

(f)  licensees participating or assisting in the contest; and

(g)  others granted credentials by the commission.

(5)  The promoter shall provide security at the direction of the commission or designated commission member to secure the areas described in Subsections (3) and (4).

(6) (a)  The designated commission member may direct the removal from the contest venue and premises, of any individual whose actions:

(i)  are disruptive to the safe conduct of the contest; or

(ii)  pose a danger to the safety and welfare of the licensees, the commission, or the public, as determined by the designated commission member.

(b)  The promoter shall provide security at the direction of the commission or designated commission member to effectuate a removal under Subsection (6)(a).

