72-1-206.   Performance auditors -- Appointment -- Duties -- Reports.
(1) (a)  The executive director, with the approval of a majority  vote of the
commission for each appointment, shall appoint not less than two performance
auditors.  A performance auditor may only be removed by the executive director
with the approval of a majority  vote of the commission.
(b)  Each auditor shall have at least three years' experience in performance
auditing prior to appointment.
(2) (a)  The executive director shall ensure that the auditors receive:
(i)  any staff support from the department that is necessary to fulfill their
duties; and
(ii)  access to all the department's records and information.
(b)  The department may hire outside consultants to assist in the audits under
Subsection (3).
(3)  The performance auditors shall conduct and supervise, as prioritized by
the commission:
(a)  performance audits to determine the efficiency and effectiveness of the
department;
(b)  financial audits to ensure the efficient and effective expenditure of
department money;
(c)  audits to ensure department compliance with state statutes, commission
priorities, and legislative appropriation intent statements;
(d)  audits to determine the impact of federal mandates, including air
quality, wetlands, and other environmental standards on the cost and schedule
of department projects;
(e)  external audits on persons entering into contracts with the department,
as necessary;
(f)  studies to determine the time required to accomplish department and
external contract work and their relative efficiencies;
(g)  evaluations of the department's quality assurance and quality control
programs; and
(h)  any other executive director or commission requests.
(4)  The performance auditors shall conduct audits in accordance with
applicable professional auditing standards.
(5)  The performance auditors shall provide copies of all reports of audit
findings to the commission, the executive director, and the Legislative
Auditor General.
