72-1-301.   Transportation Commission created -- Members, appointment, terms -- Qualifications -- Pay and expenses -- Chair -- Quorum -- Surety bond.

(1) (a)  There is created the Transportation Commission which shall consist of seven members.

(b)  The members of the commission shall be residents of Utah.

(c)  The members of the commission shall be selected on a nonpartisan basis.

(d) (i)  The commissioners shall be appointed by the governor, with the consent of the Senate, for a term of six years, beginning on April 1 of odd-numbered years, except as provided under Subsection (1)(d)(ii).

(ii)  The first two additional commissioners serving on the seven member commission shall be appointed for terms of two years nine months and four years nine months, respectively, initially commencing on July 1, 1996, and subsequently commencing as specified under Subsection (1)(d)(i).

(e)  The commissioners serve on a part-time basis.

(f)  Each commissioner shall remain in office until a successor is appointed and qualified.

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), the selection of the commissioners shall be as follows:

(i) one commissioner from Box Elder, Cache, or Rich county;

(ii)  one commissioner from Salt Lake or Tooele county;

(iii)  one commissioner from Carbon, Emery, Grand, or San Juan county;

(iv)  one commissioner from Beaver, Garfield, Iron, Kane, Millard, Piute, Sanpete, Sevier, Washington, or Wayne county;

(v)  one commissioner from Weber, Davis, or Morgan county;

(vi)  one commissioner from Juab, Utah, Wasatch, Duchesne, Summit, Uintah, or Daggett county; and

(vii)  one commissioner selected from the state at large.

(b)  Beginning with the appointment of commissioners on or after July 1, 2009 and subject to the restriction in Subsection (2)(d), the selection of commissioners shall be as follows:

(i)  four commissioners with one commissioner selected from each of the four regions established by the department; and

(ii)  subject to the restriction in Subsection (2)(c), three commissioners selected from the state at large.

(c) (i)  At least one of the three commissioners appointed under Subsection (2)(b)(ii) shall be selected from a rural county.

(ii)  For purposes of this Subsection (2)(c), a rural county includes a county of the third, fourth, fifth, or sixth class.

(d)  No more than two commissioners appointed under Subsection (2)(b) may be selected from any one of the four regions established by the department.

(3)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(4) (a)  One member of the commission shall be designated by the governor as chair.

(b)  The commission shall select one member as vice chair to act in the chair's absence.

(5)  Any four commissioners constitute a quorum.

(6) (a)  Each member of the commission shall qualify by:

(i)  taking the constitutional oath of office; and

(ii)  giving a surety bond.

(b)  The Division of Finance of the Department of Administrative Services shall determine the form and amount of the bond, and the state shall pay the bond premium.

