72-1-305.   Project selection using the written prioritization process --
Public comment -- Report.
(1)  Except as provided in Subsection (4), in determining priorities and
funding levels of projects in the state transportation system under Subsection
72-1-303(1)(a) that are new transportation capacity projects, the commission
shall use the weighted criteria system adopted in the written prioritization
process under Section 72-1-304.
(2)  Prior to finalizing priorities and funding levels of projects in the
state transportation system, the commission shall conduct public hearings at
locations around the state and accept public comments on:
(a)  the written prioritization process;
(b)  the merits of new transportation capacity projects that will be
prioritized under this section; and
(c)  the merits of new transportation capacity projects as recommended by a
consensus of local elected officials participating in a metropolitan planning
organization as defined in Section 72-1-208.5.
(3)  The commission shall make the weighted criteria system ranking for each
project publicly available prior to the public hearings held under Subsection
(2).
(4) (a)  If the commission prioritizes a project over another project with a
higher rank under the weighted criteria system, the commission shall identify
the change and accept public comment at a hearing held under this section on
the merits of prioritizing the project above higher ranked projects.
(b)  The commission shall make the reasons for the prioritization under
Subsection (4)(a) publicly available.
(5)  The executive director or the executive director's designee shall report
annually to the governor and a committee designated by the Legislative
Management Committee no later than the last day of October:
(a)  the projects prioritized under this section during the year prior to the
report; and
(b)  the status and progress of all projects prioritized under this section.
(6) (a)  The department may not delay a new transportation capacity project
that was funded by the Legislature in an appropriations act to a different
fiscal year than programmed by the commission due to an unavoidable shortfall
in revenues unless the project delays are prioritized and approved by the
Transportation Commission.
(b)  The Transportation Commission shall prioritize and approve any new
transportation capacity project delays for projects that were funded by the
Legislature in an appropriations act due to an unavoidable shortfall in
revenues.
