35A-4-306.   Charging benefit costs to employer.
(1)  Benefit costs of former workers of an employer will be charged to the
employer in the same proportion as the wages paid by that employer in the base
period bear to the total wages of all employers of that worker in the base
period, calculated to the nearest five decimal places.
(2)  Notification by the division that a worker has filed an initial claim for
unemployment insurance benefits will be sent to all base-period employers and
all subsequent employers prior to the payment of benefits.  Any employing unit
that receives a notice of the filing of a claim may protest payment of
benefits to former employees or charges to the employer if the protest is
filed within ten days after the date the notice is issued.
(3)  On or before November 1 of each year beginning November 1, 1984, each
employer shall receive notification of all benefit costs of former workers
that have been charged to that employer in the immediately preceding fiscal
year.  Any employing unit that receives a notice of benefit charges may
protest the correctness of the charges if the protest is filed within 30 days
after the date the notice is issued.
(4)  On written request made by an employer, corrections or modifications of
the employer's wages shall be taken into account for the purpose of
redetermining the employer's contribution rate.  The request shall be made to
the division no later than the end of the calendar year following the year for
which the contribution rate is assigned.  The division may, within a like
period upon its own initiative, redetermine an employer's contribution rate.
(5) (a)  If no later than three years after the date on which any
contributions or interest or penalty for contributions were due, an employer
who has paid the contributions, interest, or penalty may make application for
an adjustment in connection with subsequent contribution payments, or for a
refund because the adjustment cannot be made, and the division shall determine
that the contributions or interest or penalty or any portion thereof was
erroneously collected, the division shall allow the employer to make an
adjustment, without interest, in connection with subsequent contribution
payments by the employer, or if the adjustment cannot be made, the division
shall refund that amount, without interest.
(b)  Refunds of contributions shall be made from the clearing account or the
benefit account in the fund, and refunds of interest and penalty shall be made
from the special administrative expense fund or from the interest and penalty
moneys in the clearing account of the fund.
(c)  For like cause and within the same period, an adjustment or refund may be
made on the division's own initiative.
(d)  Decisions with respect to applications for refund are final unless the
employing unit, within ten days after the mailing or personal delivery of
notice of the decision, applies to the division for a review of the decision
as provided in Section 35A-4-508.
