35A-4-310.   Employing units.
(1) (a)  Any employing unit that is or becomes an employer subject to this
chapter within any calendar quarter is subject to this chapter during the
entire calendar quarter.
(b) (i)  No employing unit is liable as an employer under Section 35A-4-302
for any period prior to three calendar years immediately preceding the
calendar year in which the division determines the employing unit to be an
employer as defined in Section 35A-4-203.
(ii)  This limitation does not apply if the division determines that the
employing unit knowingly or willfully failed to report to the  division to
avoid liability for contributions imposed by this chapter.
(2)  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, the division may on
its own initiative terminate coverage when it finds that an employing unit had
no calendar quarter within the preceding calendar year during which there were
wages paid for employment and the division finds that during the preceding
calendar year the employing unit did not meet any of the conditions for
subjectivity to this chapter.
(3) (a) (i)  An employing unit not otherwise subject to this chapter that
files with the division its written election to become an employer subject to
this chapter for not less than two calendar years shall, with the written
approval of the election by the division, become an employer subject to this
chapter to the same extent as all other employers, as of the date stated in
the approval.
(ii)  The employing unit shall cease to be subject to this chapter as of
January 1 of any calendar year subsequent to the two calendar years, referred
to in Subsection (3)(a)(i) only if, at least 30 days prior to the first day of
January, it has filed with the division a written notice to the effect.
(b) (i)  Services which do not constitute employment as defined in this
chapter shall, upon the filing by the employing unit for whom the services are
performed of a written election that services performed by individuals in its
employ in one or more distinct establishments or places of work shall be
considered to constitute employment for all the purposes of this chapter for
not less than two calendar years, and upon the written approval of the
election by the division, be considered to constitute employment subject from
and after the date stated in the approval.
(ii)  The services referred to in Subsection (3)(b)(i) shall cease to be
considered to be employment subject to this chapter as of January 1 of any
calendar year subsequent to the two calendar years only if, at least 30 days
prior to the first day of January, the employing unit has filed with the
division a written notice to that effect.
