35A-4-402.   Extended benefits.
(1)  Except when the result would be inconsistent with the other provisions of
this section or the rules of the department, the provisions of this chapter
that apply to claims for or payments of regular benefits apply to claims for
and payments of extended benefits.
(2)  An individual is eligible to receive extended benefits with respect to
any week of unemployment in his eligibility period only if the division finds
that with respect to that week the individual:
(a)  is an "exhaustee" as defined in this section;
(b)  has satisfied the requirements of this  chapter for the receipt of
regular benefits that are applicable to individuals claiming extended
benefits, including not being subject to a disqualification for the receipt of
benefits; and
(c)  has satisfied the federal requirements as adopted by state regulation for
the receipt of extended benefits.
(3)  The weekly extended benefit amount payable to an individual for a week of
total unemployment in his eligibility period is an amount equal to the weekly
benefit amount payable to him during his applicable benefit year.
(4)  The total extended benefit amount payable to any eligible individual with
respect to his applicable benefit year is the lesser of the following amounts:
(a)  50% of the total amount of regular benefits which were payable to him
under this chapter in his applicable benefit year;
(b)  13 times his weekly benefit amount which was payable to him under this
chapter for a week of total unemployment in the applicable benefit year; or
(c)  39 times his weekly benefit amount which was payable to him under this
chapter for a week of total unemployment in the applicable benefit year,
reduced by the total amount of regular benefits which were paid or deemed paid
to him under this chapter with respect to the benefit year.
(5)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this  chapter, if the benefit year
of any individual ends within an extended benefit period, the remaining
balance of extended benefits that the individual would, but for this section,
be entitled to receive in that extended benefit period, with respect to weeks
of unemployment beginning after the end of the benefit year, shall be reduced,
but not below zero, by the product of the number of weeks for which the
individual received any amounts as trade adjustment allowances within that
benefit year, multiplied by the individual's weekly benefit amount for
extended benefits.
(6) (a)  Whenever an extended benefit period is to become effective in this
state as a result of a state "on" indicator, or an extended benefit period is
to be terminated in this state as a result of a state "off" indicator, the
division shall make an appropriate public announcement.
(b)  Computations required by Subsection (7)(f) shall be made by the division,
in accordance with regulations prescribed by the United States Secretary of
Labor.
(7)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Extended benefit period" means a period  that:
(i)  begins with the third week after a week for which there is a state "on"
indicator; and
(ii)  ends with either:
(A)  the third week after the first week for which there is a state "off"
indicator; or
(B)  after the 13th consecutive week of duration of that period, whichever
occurs later; however, no extended benefit period may begin by reason of a
state "on" indicator before the 14th week following the end of a prior
extended benefit period which was in effect with respect to this state.
(b)  There is a "state 'on' indicator" for this state for a week if the
division determines, in accordance with the regulations of the Secretary of
Labor, that for the period consisting of that week and the immediately
preceding 12 weeks, the rate of insured unemployment, not seasonally adjusted,
under this chapter equaled or exceeded 120% of the average of the rates for
the corresponding 13-week period ending in each of the preceding two calendar
years and that the rate equaled or exceeded 4% until the weeks beginning after
September 25, 1982, at which time it will become 5%.
(c)  There is a "state 'off' indicator" for this state for a week if the
division determines, in accordance with the regulations of the Secretary of
Labor, that for the period consisting of that week and the immediately
preceding 12 weeks, the rate of insured unemployment, not seasonally adjusted,
under this chapter was less than 120% of the average of the rates for the
corresponding 13-week period ending in each of the preceding two calendar
years or that the rate was less than 4% until the weeks beginning after
September 25, 1982, at which time it will become 5%.
(d)  "Rate of insured unemployment," for purposes of Subsections (7)(b) and
(7)(c), means the percentage derived by dividing the average weekly number of
individuals filing claims for regular compensation in this state for weeks of
unemployment with respect to the most recent 13-consecutive-week period, as
determined by the division on the basis of its reports to the Secretary of
Labor, by the average monthly employment covered under this  chapter for the
first four of the most recent six completed calendar quarters ending before
the end of the 13-week period.
(e)  "Regular benefits" means benefits payable to an individual under this
chapter or under any other state law, including benefits payable to federal
civilian employees and to ex-servicemen under 5 U.S.C. Chapter 85, other than
extended benefits.
(f)  "Extended benefits" means benefits, including benefits payable to federal
civilian employees and to ex-servicemen under 5 U.S.C. Chapter 85, payable to
an individual under the provisions of this section for weeks of unemployment
in his eligibility period.
(g)  "Eligibility period" of an individual means the period consisting of the
weeks in his benefit year which begin in an extended benefit period and, if
his benefit year ends within the extended benefit period, any weeks thereafter
which begin in that period.
(h)  "Exhaustee" means an individual who, with respect to any week of
unemployment in his eligibility period:
(i)  has received, prior to that week, all of the regular benefits that were
available to him under this chapter or any other state law, including
dependent's allowances and benefits payable to federal civilian employees and
ex-servicemen under 5 U.S.C. Chapter 85, in his current benefit year that
includes such week.  An individual, for the purposes of this subsection, shall
be deemed to have received all of the regular benefits that were available to
him although, as a result of a pending appeal with respect to wages or
employment, or both, that were not considered in the original monetary
determination in his benefit year, he may subsequently be determined to be
entitled to added regular benefits; or
(ii)  has no, or insufficient, wages or employment or both on the basis of
which he could establish a new benefit year that would include that week, his
benefit year having expired prior to that week; and
(iii)  has no right to unemployment benefits or allowances, as the case may
be, under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, the Trade Expansion Act of
1962, the Automotive Products Trade Act of 1965, or any other federal laws as
are specified in regulations issued by the Secretary of Labor and has not
received, and is not seeking, unemployment benefits under the unemployment
compensation law of the Virgin Islands or of Canada.  However, if that person
is seeking such benefits and the appropriate agency finally determines that he
is not entitled to benefits under that law he is considered an "exhaustee,"
provided that the reference in this  subsection to the Virgin Islands shall be
inapplicable effective on the day on which the U. S. Secretary of Labor
approves under Section 3304 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26
U.S.C. 3304(a), an unemployment compensation law submitted to the Secretary by
the Virgin Islands for approval.
(i)  "State law" means the unemployment insurance law of any state, approved
by the Secretary of Labor under Section 3304 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954, 26 U.S.C. 3304(a).
