35A-4-505.   Employment Security Administration Fund.
(1) (a)  There is created in the General Fund a restricted account known as
the Employment Security Administration Fund.
(b)  All moneys which are deposited or paid into this fund shall be
continuously available to the department for expenditure in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter and Chapter 3, Employment Support Act, and
shall not lapse at any time or be transferred to any other fund.
(c)  All moneys in this fund which are received from the Secretary of Labor
under Title III of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 501 et seq. shall be
expended solely for the purposes and in the amounts found necessary, after
reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing to the division, by the
Secretary of Labor for the proper and efficient administration of this
chapter.
(2)  The fund shall consist of all moneys appropriated by this state, all
moneys received from the United States of America, or any agency thereof,
including the Secretary of Labor, and all moneys received from any other
source for such purpose, and shall also include any moneys received from any
agency of the United States or any other state as compensation for services or
facilities supplied to such agency, any amounts received pursuant to any
surety bond or insurance policy or from other sources for losses sustained by
the Employment Security Administration Fund or by reason of damage to
equipment or supplies purchased from moneys in such fund, and any proceeds
realized from the sale or disposition of any equipment or supplies which may
no longer be necessary for the proper administration of this chapter.
(3) (a)  All moneys in this fund shall be deposited, administered, and
disbursed, in accordance with the directions of the department.
(b)  The state treasurer shall pay all warrants drawn upon it by the division
in accordance with rules prescribed by the department.
(4)  The state treasurer shall be liable on his official bond for the faithful
performance of his duties in connection with the employment security
administration fund provided for under this chapter.  Such liability on the
official bond shall be effective immediately upon the enactment of this
provision, and such liability shall exist in addition to any liability upon
any separate bond existent on the effective date of this provision, or which
may be given in the future.  All sums recovered on any surety bond for losses
sustained by the employment security administration fund shall be deposited in
said fund.
(5)  If any moneys received after June 30, 1941, from the Secretary of Labor
under Title III of the Social Security Act, or any unencumbered balances in
the employment security administration fund as of that date, are found, after
reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing to the division, by the
Secretary of Labor to have been lost or been expended for purposes other than,
or in amounts in excess of, those found necessary by the Secretary of Labor
for the proper administration of this chapter, the moneys shall be replaced
within a reasonable time by moneys appropriated for this purpose from the
general funds of this state to the Employment Security Administration Fund for
expenditure as provided in Subsection (1).  Upon receipt of notice of such a
finding by the Secretary of Labor, the division shall promptly report the
amount required for such replacement to the governor.
