35A-4-508.   Review of decision or determination by division --
Administrative law judge -- Division of adjudication -- Workforce Appeals
Board -- Judicial review by Court of Appeals -- Exclusive procedure.
(1) (a)  A review of a decision or determination involving contribution
liability or applications for refund of contributions shall be made by the
division in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(b)  The division in conducting the review may in its discretion:
(i)  refer the matter to an administrative law judge;
(ii)  decide the application for review on the basis of any facts and
information as may be obtained; or
(iii)  hear argument or hold an informal hearing to secure further facts.
(c)  After the review, notice of the decision shall be given to the employing
unit.
(d)  The decision made pursuant to the review is the final decision of the
division unless, within ten days after the date of notification or mailing of
the decision, a further appeal is initiated under the provisions of this
section.
(2) (a)  Within ten days after the mailing or personal delivery of a notice of
a determination or decision rendered following a review under Subsection (1),
an employing unit may appeal to the Division of Adjudication by filing a
notice of appeal.
(b)  The administrative law judge shall give notice of the pendency of the
appeal to the division and any parties entitled to notice as provided by
department rule.  The administrative law judge shall receive into the record
of the appeal any documents or other records provided by the division, and may
obtain or request any additional documents or records held by the division or
any of the parties that the administrative law judge considers relevant to a
proper determination of the appeal.
(c)  After affording the parties reasonable opportunity for a fair hearing,
the administrative law judge shall make findings and conclusions and on that
basis affirm, modify, or reverse the determination of the division.
(d)  The parties and the division shall be promptly notified of the
administrative law judge's decision and furnished a copy of the decision and
findings.
(e)  The decision of the administrative law judge is considered to be a final
order of the department unless within 30 days after the date the decision of
the administrative law judge is issued further appeal is initiated under this
section and Chapter 1, Part 3, Adjudicative Proceedings.
(3) (a)  The director of the Division of Adjudication shall assign an
impartial, salaried administrative law judge selected in accordance with
Subsection 35A-4-502(4)(a) to hear and decide referrals or appeals relating to
claims for benefits or to make decisions affecting employing units under this
chapter.
(b)  All records on appeals shall be maintained in the offices of the Division
of Adjudication.  The records shall include an appeal docket showing the
receipt and disposition of the appeals on review.
(4)  The Workforce Appeals Board may review and decide an appeal from a
decision of an administrative law judge issued under this chapter.
(5) (a)  The manner in which disputed matters are presented, the reports
required from the claimant and employing units, and the conduct of hearings
and appeals shall be in accordance with rules prescribed by the department for
determining the rights of the parties, whether or not the rules conform to
common-law or statutory rules of evidence and other technical rules of
procedure.
(b)  When the same or substantially similar evidence is relevant and material
to the matters in issue in more than one proceeding, the same time and place
for considering each matter may be fixed, hearings jointly conducted, a single
record of the proceedings made, and evidence introduced with respect to one
proceeding considered as introduced in the others, if in the judgment of the
administrative law judge having jurisdiction of the proceedings, the
consolidation would not be prejudicial to any party.
(6) (a)  Except for reconsideration of any determination under Subsection
35A-4-406(2), any right, fact, or matter in issue, directly passed upon or
necessarily involved in a determination or redetermination that has become
final, or in a decision on appeal under this section that has become final, is
conclusive for all the purposes of this chapter as between the division, the
claimant, and all employing units that had notice of the determination,
redetermination, or decision.  Subject to appeal proceedings and judicial
review as provided in this section, any determination, redetermination, or
decision as to rights to benefits is conclusive for all the purposes of this
chapter and is not subject to collateral attack by any employing unit,
irrespective of notice.
(b)  Any findings of fact or law, judgment, conclusion, or final order made by
an unemployment insurance hearing officer, administrative law judge, or any
person with the authority to make findings of fact or law in any action or
proceeding before the unemployment insurance appeals tribunal, is not
conclusive or binding in any separate or subsequent action or proceeding,
between an individual and the individual's present or prior employer, brought
before an arbitrator, court, or judge of this state or the United States,
regardless of whether the prior action was between the same or related parties
or involved the same facts.
(7) (a)  Any decision in the absence of an appeal as provided becomes final
upon issuance and judicial review may be permitted only after any party
claiming to be aggrieved has exhausted the party's remedies before the
department as provided by this chapter.
(b)  The division is a party to any judicial action involving any decisions
and shall be represented in the judicial action by any qualified attorney
employed by the department and designated by it for that purpose or at the
division's request by the attorney general.
(8) (a)  Within 30 days after the decision of the Workforce Appeals Board is
issued, any aggrieved party may secure judicial review by commencing an action
in the court of appeals against the Workforce Appeals Board for the review of
its decision, in which action any other party to the proceeding before the
Workforce Appeals Board shall be made a defendant.
(b)  In that action a petition, that shall state the grounds upon which a
review is sought, shall be served upon the Workforce Appeals Board or upon
that person the Workforce Appeals Board designates.  This service is
considered completed service on all parties but there shall be left with the
party served as many copies of the petition as there are defendants and the
Workforce Appeals Board shall mail one copy to each defendant.
(c)  With its answer, the Workforce Appeals Board shall certify and file with
the court all documents and papers and a transcript of all testimony taken in
the matter together with its findings of fact and decision, in accordance with
the requirements of the Utah Rules of Appellate Procedure.
(d)  The Workforce Appeals Board may certify to the court questions of law
involved in any decision by the board.
(e)  In any judicial proceeding under this section, the findings of the
Workforce Appeals Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence, are
conclusive and the jurisdiction of the court is confined to questions of law.
(f)  It is not necessary in any judicial proceeding under this section to
enter exceptions to the rulings of the division, an administrative law judge,
Workforce Appeals Board and no bond is required for entering the appeal.
(g)  Upon final determination of the judicial proceeding, the division shall
enter an order in accordance with the determination.  In no event may a
petition for judicial review act as a supersedeas.
(9)  The procedure provided for hearings and decisions with respect to any
decision or determination of the division affecting claimants or employing
units under this chapter is the sole and exclusive procedure notwithstanding
any other provision of this title.
