53A-15-101.5.   Concurrent enrollment instruction in Mandarin Chinese.

(1) (a)  As used in this section, "category IV languages" means those languages designated the most difficult to learn by the Defense Language Institute as provided in training to members of the United States Military.

(b)  The Legislature recognizes:

(i)  the importance of students acquiring skills in foreign languages in order for them to successfully compete in a global society; and

(ii)  that the acquisition of category IV languages, such as Mandarin Chinese, Arabic, Korean, and Japanese, by students in the state's public schools requires extended sequences of study to acquire useful proficiency in listening, speaking, reading, and writing.

(2) (a)  As a component of the concurrent enrollment program authorized under Section 53A-15-101, the State Board of Education and the State Board of Regents, in consultation with the Utah Education Network, may develop and implement a concurrent enrollment course of study in the category IV language of Mandarin Chinese.

(b)  The course shall be taught over EDNET, the state's two-way interactive system for video and audio, to high school juniors and seniors in the state's public education system.

(3) (a)  The concurrent enrollment course in Mandarin Chinese authorized in Subsection (2) may use paraprofessionals in the classroom who:

(i)  are fluent in Mandarin Chinese; and

(ii)  can provide reinforcement and tutoring to students on days and at times when they are not receiving instruction over EDNET under Subsection (2)(b).

(b)  The State Board of Education, through the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, and professors who teach Chinese in the state system of higher education shall jointly ensure that the paraprofessionals are fluent in Mandarin Chinese.

(4)  The State Board of Education and the State Board of Regents shall make joint rules on the concurrent enrollment course authorized under this section in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to include:

(a)  notification to school districts on the times and places of the course offerings; and

(b)  instructional materials for the course.

(5)  Students who successfully complete the concurrent enrollment course offered under this section shall receive tuition reimbursement for a sequential Mandarin Chinese course they successfully complete at an institution within the state system of higher education under rules made by the State Board of Regents in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.

(6)  The State Board of Education and the State Board of Regents shall jointly track and monitor the Mandarin Chinese language program and may expand the program to include other category IV languages, subject to student demand for the courses and available resources.

