53A-15-102.   Early graduation incentives -- Incentive to school district -- Partial tuition scholarship for student -- Payments.

(1)  Any secondary public school student who has completed all required courses or demonstrated mastery of required skills and competencies may, with the approval of the student, the student's parent or guardian, and an authorized local school official, graduate at any time.

(2)  Each public high school shall receive an amount equal to 1/2 of the scholarship awarded to each student who graduates from the  school at or prior to the conclusion of the eleventh grade, or a proportionately lesser amount for any student who graduates after the conclusion of the eleventh grade but prior to the conclusion of the twelfth grade.

(3) (a)  A student who graduates from high school at or prior to the conclusion of the eleventh grade shall receive a centennial scholarship in the lesser amount of full tuition for one year or $1,000 to be used for full time enrollment at a Utah public college, university, community college, applied technology center, or any other institution in the state of Utah, accredited by the Northwest Association of Schools and Colleges that offers postsecondary courses of the student's choice upon verification that the student has registered at the institution during the fiscal year following graduation from high school.

(b)  In the case of a student who graduates after the conclusion of the eleventh grade but prior to the conclusion of the twelfth grade, the student shall receive a centennial scholarship of a proportionately lesser amount.

(4) (a)  The payments authorized in Subsections (2) and (3)(a) shall be made during the fiscal year that follows the student's graduation.

(b)  The payments authorized in Subsection (3)(b) may be made during the fiscal year in which the student graduates or the fiscal year following the student's graduation.

(5) (a)  The State Board of Education shall administer the payment program authorized in Subsections (2), (3), and (4).

(b) (i)  The Legislature shall make an annual appropriation from the Uniform School Fund to the State Board of Education for the costs associated with the Centennial Scholarship Program based on the projected number of students who will graduate before the conclusion of the twelfth grade in any given year.

(ii)  It is understood that the appropriation is offset by the state money that would otherwise be required and appropriated for these students if they were enrolled in an additional grade for a full year.

