53A-15-601.   Appropriation for program -- Program requirements --
Distribution of funds to school districts.
(1)  The Legislature shall provide an annual appropriation from the Uniform
School Fund to the State Board of Education for a gang prevention and
intervention program designed to help students at risk for gang involvement
stay in school, enhance their self-esteem, and improve their intellectual and
life skills.
(2)  The program shall:
(a)  provide independent gang prevention and intervention both inside and
outside of school grounds when necessary, including:
(i)  meetings with gang members and other students whose activities negatively
impact students in the program;
(ii)  intervening in situations involving gangs that impact students in the
program or can result in violence;
(iii)  in-home visits with families of students in the program designed to
encourage parents to become involved in their child's education; and
(iv)  notifying law enforcement personnel when a particular problem cannot be
defused or when required by law; and
(b) maintaining required individual information including profiles on each
student receiving direct services through the program, including:
(i)  attendance records;
(ii)  academic records; and
(iii)  extra-curricular activities.
(3)  The program coordinator at each school shall:
(a)  be on the school grounds during school hours;
(b)  have received training on gang prevention and intervention strategies in
the schools;
(c)  have an understanding of the cultural backgrounds of gang members and at-
risk students and be aware of the potential for gang involvement in all
situations; and
(d)  have a minimum of one year's experience or on-site training in gang
related issues inside the schools.
(4)  Individual schools within each school district interested in providing a
gang prevention and intervention program shall apply to the school board for
funds.
(5)  Individual schools shall be required to provide a percentage of the
funding necessary for the program in their school, at least one-half of which
must be provided through in-kind services.  In-kind services may not include
office space and support.  Percentage requirements shall be as follows:
(a)  elementary schools, 12%;
(b)  middle, intermediate, or junior high schools, 18%;
(c)  high schools, 25%.
(6)  Individual schools receiving funds may provide the program to their
students by contracting with a private entity whose program meets the
requirements set out in Subsections (2) and (3).
