53A-15-701.   Highly impacted schools.

(1)  There is established a Highly Impacted Schools Program to provide additional resources for individual assistance to students at those schools determined by the board to be highly impacted.

(2) (a)  The State Board of Education, in consultation with the governor's office, shall base its determination of highly impacted schools on the following criteria as reported by the schools in their applications:

(i)  high student mobility rates within each school;

(ii)  the number and percentage of students at each school who apply for free school lunch;

(iii)  the number and percentage of ethnic minority students at each school;

(iv)  the number and percentage of limited English proficiency students at each school; and

(v)  the number and percentage of students at each school from a single parent family.

(b)  As used in this section, "single parent family" means a household headed by a male without a wife present or by a female without a husband present.

(3) (a)  The board, through the state superintendent of public instruction, shall establish application deadlines for participation in the program.

(b) (i) The appropriation required to implement the Highly Impacted Schools Program shall be made under Title 53A, Chapter 17a, Minimum School Program Act.

(ii)  The state superintendent of public instruction shall administer and distribute the appropriation to individual schools according to a formula established by the board.

(c) (i)  Each participating school shall receive a base allocation from the appropriation.

(ii)  Additional money from the appropriation shall be allocated on the basis of a formula which takes into consideration the total number of students at each participating school and the number of students at each school who are within the categories listed in Subsection (2).

(4)  This appropriation is in addition to any appropriation made for class-size reduction under Section 53A-17a-124.5.

(5)  A highly impacted school may use part or all of its allocation to lengthen the school year or extend the school day in order to provide individual assistance to students.

(6)  The board shall monitor the program and require each participant school to file a report on the use and effectiveness of the appropriation in meeting the educational needs and involving parents of students who attend these highly impacted schools.

