53A-15-1204.   Option to enroll in online courses offered through the Statewide Online Education Program.

(1)  Subject to the course limitations provided in Subsection (2), an eligible student may enroll in an online course offered through the Statewide Online Education Program if:

(a)  the student meets the course prerequisites;

(b)  the course is open for enrollment;

(c)  the online course is aligned with the student's student education/occupation plan (SEOP);

(d)  the online course is consistent with the student's individual education plan (IEP), if the student has an IEP; and

(e)  the online course is consistent with the student's international baccalaureate program, if the student is participating in an international baccalaureate program.

(2)  An eligible student may enroll in online courses for no more than the following number of credits:

(a)  in the 2011-12 and 2012-13 school years, two credits;

(b)  in the 2013-14 school year, three credits;

(c)  in the 2014-15 school year, four credits;

(d)  in the 2015-16 school year, five credits; and

(e)  beginning with the 2016-17 school year, six credits.

(3)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2):

(a)  a student's primary LEA of enrollment may allow an eligible student to enroll in online courses for more than the number of credits specified in Subsection (2); or

(b)  upon the request of an eligible student, the State Board of Education may allow the student to enroll in online courses for more than the number of credits specified in Subsection (2), if the online courses better meet the academic goals of the student.

(4)  An eligible student's primary LEA of enrollment:

(a)  in conjunction with the student and the student's parent or legal guardian, is responsible for preparing and implementing a student education/occupation plan (SEOP) for the eligible student, as provided in Section 53A-1a-106; and

(b)  shall assist an eligible student in scheduling courses in accordance with the student's SEOP, graduation requirements, and the student's post-secondary plans.

(5)  An eligible student's primary LEA of enrollment may not:

(a)  impose restrictions on a student's selection of an online course that fulfills graduation requirements and is consistent with the student's SEOP or post-secondary plans; or

(b)  give preference to an online course or online course provider.

(6)  The State Board of Education, including an employee of the State Board of Education, may not give preference to an online course or online course provider.

(7) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(b), a person may not provide an inducement or incentive to a public school student to participate in the Statewide Online Education Program.

(b)  For purposes of Subsection (7)(a):

(i)  "Inducement or incentive" does not mean:

(A)  instructional materials or software necessary to take an online course; or

(B)  access to a computer or digital learning device for the purpose of taking an online course.

(ii)  "Person" does not include a relative of the public school student.



Amended by Chapter 238, 2012 General Session

