53A-15-1206.   Payment for an online course.

(1)  For the 2012-13 school year, the fee for a .5 credit online course or .5 credit of a 1 credit online course is:

(a)  $200 for the following core curriculum courses, except a concurrent enrollment course:

(i)  financial literacy;

(ii)  health;

(iii)  fitness for life; and

(iv)  computer literacy;

(b)  $200 for driver education;

(c)  $250 for a course that meets core curriculum requirements in fine arts or career and technical education, except a concurrent enrollment course;

(d)  $300 for the following courses:

(i)  a course that meets core curriculum requirements in social studies, except a concurrent enrollment course; and

(ii)  a world language course, except a concurrent enrollment course;

(e)  $350 for the following courses:

(i)  a course that meets core curriculum requirements for language arts, mathematics, or science; and

(ii)  a concurrent enrollment course; and

(f)  $250 for a course not described in Subsections (1)(a) through (e).

(2)  If a course meets the requirements of more than one course fee category described in Subsection (1), the course fee shall be the lowest of the applicable course fee categories.

(3)  Beginning with the 2013-14 school year, the online course fees described in Subsection (1) shall be adjusted each school year in accordance with the percentage change in value of the weighted pupil unit from the previous school year.

(4)  An online learning provider shall receive payment for an online course as follows:

(a)  for a .5 credit online course, 50% of the online course fee after the withdrawal period described in Section 53A-15-1206.5;

(b)  for a 1 credit online course, 25% of the online course fee after the withdrawal period described in Section 53A-15-1206.5 and 25% of the online course fee upon the beginning of the second .5 credit of the online course; and

(c)  if a student completes a 1 credit online course within 12 months or a .5 credit course within nine weeks following the end of a traditional semester, 50% of the online course fee.

(5) (a)  If a student fails to complete a 1 credit course within 12 months or a.5 credit course within nine weeks following the end of a traditional semester, the student may continue to be enrolled in the course until the student graduates from high school.

(b)  To encourage an online course provider to provide remediation to a student who remains enrolled in an online course pursuant to Subsection (5)(a) and avoid the need for credit recovery, an online course provider shall receive a payment equal to 30% of the online course fee if the student completes the online course before the student graduates from high school.

(6)  Notwithstanding the online course fees prescribed in Subsections (1) through (3), a school district or charter school may:

(a)  negotiate a fee with an online course provider for an amount up to the amount prescribed in Subsections (1) through (3); and

(b)  pay the negotiated fee instead of the fee prescribed in Subsections (1) through (3).

(7)  An online course provider who contracts with a vendor for the acquisition of online course content or online course instruction may negotiate the payment for the vendor's service independent of the fees specified in Subsections (1) through (3).



Amended by Chapter 238, 2012 General Session

