53A-15-1208.   Course credit acknowledgement.

(1)  A student's primary LEA of enrollment and the student's online course provider shall enter into a course credit acknowledgement in which the primary LEA of enrollment and the online course provider acknowledge that the online course provider is responsible for the instruction of the student in a specified online course.

(2)  The terms of the course credit acknowledgement shall provide that:

(a)  the online course provider shall receive a payment in the amount provided under Section 53A-15-1206; and

(b)  the student's primary LEA of enrollment acknowledges that the State Board of Education will deduct funds allocated to the LEA under Chapter 17a, Minimum School Program Act, in the amount and at the time the online course provider qualifies to receive payment for the online course as provided in Subsection 53A-15-1206(4).

(3) (a)  A course credit acknowledgement may originate with either an online course provider or primary LEA of enrollment.

(b)  The originating entity shall submit the course credit acknowledgement to the State Board of Education who shall forward it to the primary LEA of enrollment for course selection verification or the online course provider for acceptance.

(c) (i)  A primary LEA of enrollment may only reject a course credit acknowledgement if:

(A)  the online course is not aligned with the student's SEOP;

(B)  the online course is not consistent with the student's IEP, if the student has an IEP;

(C)  the online course is not consistent with the student's international baccalaureate program, if the student participates in an international baccalaureate program; or

(D)  the number of online course credits exceeds the maximum allowed for the year as provided in Section 53A-15-1204.

(ii)  Verification of alignment of an online course with a student's SEOP does not require a meeting with the student.

(d)  An online course provider may only reject a course credit acknowledgement if:

(i)  the student does not meet course prerequisites; or

(ii)  the course is not open for enrollment.

(e)  A primary LEA of enrollment or online course provider shall submit an acceptance or rejection of a course credit acknowledgement to the State Board of Education within 72 business hours of the receipt of a course credit acknowledgement from the State Board of Education pursuant to Subsection (3)(b).

(f)  If an online course provider accepts a course credit acknowledgement, the online course provider shall forward to the primary LEA of enrollment the online course start date as established under Section 53A-15-1206.5.

(g)  If an online course provider rejects a course credit acknowledgement, the online course provider shall include an explanation which the State Board of Education shall forward to the primary LEA of enrollment for the purpose of assisting a student with future online course selection.

(h)  If a primary LEA of enrollment does not submit an acceptance or rejection of a course credit acknowledgement to the State Board of Education within 72 business hours of the receipt of a course credit acknowledgement from the State Board of Education pursuant to Subsection (3)(b), the State Board of Education shall consider the course credit acknowledgement accepted.

(i) (i)  Upon acceptance of a course credit acknowledgement, the primary LEA of enrollment shall notify the student of the acceptance and the start date for the online course as established under Section 53A-15-1206.5.

(ii)  Upon rejection of a course credit acknowledgement, the primary LEA of enrollment shall notify the student of the rejection and provide an explanation of the rejection.

(j)  If the online course student has an individual education plan (IEP) or 504 accommodations, the primary LEA of enrollment shall forward the IEP or description of 504 accommodations to the online course provider within 72 business hours after the primary LEA of enrollment receives notice that the online course provider accepted the course credit acknowledgement.

(4) (a)  A primary LEA of enrollment may not reject a course credit acknowledgement, because the LEA is negotiating, or intends to negotiate, an online course fee with the online course provider pursuant to Subsection 53A-15-1206(6).

(b)  If a primary LEA of enrollment negotiates an online course fee with an online course provider before the start date of an online course, a course credit acknowledgement may be amended to reflect the negotiated online course fee.



Amended by Chapter 238, 2012 General Session

