53A-15-1301.   Youth suicide prevention programs required in secondary schools -- State Board of Education to develop model programs -- Reporting requirements.

(1)  As used in the section:

(a)  "Board" means the State Board of Education.

(b)  "Intervention" means an effort to prevent a student from attempting suicide.

(c)  "Postvention" means mental health intervention after a suicide attempt or death to prevent or contain contagion.

(d)  "Program" means a youth suicide prevention program described in Subsection (2).

(e)  "Secondary grades":

(i)  means grades 7 through 12; and

(ii)  if a middle or junior high school includes grade 6, includes grade 6.

(f)  "State Office of Education suicide prevention coordinator" means a person designated by the board as described in Subsection (3).

(g)  "State suicide prevention coordinator" means the state suicide prevention coordinator described in Section 62A-15-1101.

(2) (a)  In collaboration with the State Office of Education suicide prevention coordinator, a school district or charter school shall implement a youth suicide prevention program in the secondary grades of the school district or charter school.

(b)  A school district or charter school's program shall include the following components:

(i)  prevention of youth suicides;

(ii)  youth suicide intervention; and

(iii)  postvention for family, students, and faculty.

(3)  The board shall:

(a)  designate a State Office of Education suicide prevention coordinator; and

(b)  in collaboration with the Department of Heath and the state suicide prevention coordinator, develop model programs to provide to school districts and charter schools:

(i)  program training; and

(ii)  resources regarding the required components described in Subsection (2)(b).

(4)  The State Office of Education suicide prevention coordinator shall:

(a)  oversee the youth suicide prevention programs of school districts and charter schools; and

(b)  coordinate prevention and postvention programs, services, and efforts with the state suicide prevention coordinator.

(5)  Subject to legislative appropriation, the board may distribute money to a school district or charter school to be used to implement a program in the school district or charter school.

(6) (a)  The board shall report to the Legislature's Education Interim Committee, by the November 2014 meeting, jointly with the state suicide prevention coordinator, on:

(i)  the progress of school district and charter school programs; and

(ii)  the board's coordination efforts with the Department of Health and the state suicide prevention coordinator.

(b)  School districts and charter schools shall provide to the board information that is necessary for the board's report to the Legislature's Education Interim Committee as required in Subsection (6)(a).



Enacted by Chapter 194, 2013 General Session

