53A-15-1302.   Parent education -- Mental health -- Bullying -- Safety.

(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (5), a school district shall offer a seminar for parents of students in the school district that:

(i)  is offered at no cost to parents;

(ii)  begins at or after 6 p.m.;

(iii)  is held in at least one school located in the school district;

(iv)  is offered once a year; and

(v)  covers the topics described in Subsection (2).

(b)  A school district may:

(i)  develop its own curriculum for the seminar described in Subsection (1)(a); or

(ii)  use the curriculum developed by the State Board of Education under Subsection (2).

(c)  A school district shall notify each charter school located in the attendance boundaries of the school district of the date and time of the parent seminar, so the charter school may inform parents of the seminar.

(2)  The State Board of Education shall:

(a)  develop a curriculum for the parent seminar described in Subsection (1) that includes information on:

(i)  substance abuse, including illegal drugs and prescription drugs and prevention;

(ii)  bullying;

(iii)  mental health, depression, and suicide awareness; and

(iv)  Internet safety, including pornography addiction; and

(b)  provide the curriculum, including resources and training, to school districts upon request.

(3)  The State Board of Education shall report to the Legislature's Education Interim Committee, by the November 2013 meeting, on the progress of implementation of the parent seminar, including if a local school board has opted out of providing the parent seminar, as described in Subsection (5), and the reasons why a local school board opted out.

(4)  The State Board of Education shall report to the Legislature's Education Interim Committee by the November 2014 meeting on:

(a)  the progress of implementation of the parent seminar;

(b)  the estimated attendance reported by each school district;

(c)  a recommendation of whether to continue the parent seminar program; and

(d)  if a local school board has opted out of providing the parent seminar, as described in Subsection (5), and the reasons why a local school board opted out.

(5) (a)  A school district is not required to offer the parent seminar if the local school board determines that the topics described in Subsection (2) are not of significant interest or value to families in the school district.

(b)  If a local school board chooses not to offer the parent seminar, the local school board shall notify the State Board of Education and provide the reasons why the local school board chose not to offer the parent seminar.



Enacted by Chapter 139, 2013 General Session

