17B-2a-406.   Improvement districts providing electric service -- Public
Service Commission jurisdiction -- Exceptions.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Commission" means the Public Service Commission of Utah established in
Section 54-1-1.
(b)  "Electric corporation" has the same meaning as defined in Section 54-2-1.
(c)  "Electric improvement district" means an improvement district that
provides electric service as authorized under Subsection 17B-2a-403(1)(a)(iv).
(d)  "Stranded asset" means an asset that:
(i)  an electric corporation owns and operates;
(ii)  is designed to serve an area that is:
(A)  within the electric corporation's certificated service area before the
area is removed from the certificated service area by commission order as
provided in Subsection (3)(b)(i)(B)(II); and
(B)  within the boundary of an electric improvement district; and
(iii)  will not be useful to or used by the electric corporation after removal
of the area from the electric corporation's certificated service area.
(2)  An electric improvement district is a public utility and subject to the
jurisdiction of the commission.
(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(b), an electric improvement
district:
(i)  may include only an area where:
(A)  no retail electricity has been provided to commercial, industrial,
residential, and other users of electricity from an investor-owned utility
within any part of an area certificated by the commission or an area adjacent
to that area, municipal agency, or electric cooperative within the five years
immediately preceding September 1, 1985; and
(B)  electric service is provided to at least one user of electricity within
the electric service district as of September 1, 1985; and
(ii)  shall have filed an application for certification and received approval
by the commission by September 1, 1986.
(b) (i)  An electric improvement district created after May 11, 2009 may
provide electric service within the boundary of the improvement district if:
(A)  no part of the boundary of the electric improvement district is closer
than 40 miles to an existing service line of an electric corporation;
(B) (I)  no part of the area within the boundary of the electric improvement
district is within the certificated service area of an electric corporation;
or
(II)  the area within the boundary of the electric improvement district that
is also within the certificated service area of an electric corporation is
removed from the electric corporation's certificated service area by
commission order in a proceeding initiated by a petition filed by and at the
discretion of the electric corporation; and
(C)  before January 1, 2010, the electric improvement district receives a
certificate of public convenience and necessity from the commission
authorizing the electric improvement district to provide electric service to
the area within the boundary of the electric improvement district.
(ii)  An electric improvement district that provides electric service as
provided in Subsection (3)(b)(i) shall pay an electric corporation an amount
equal to the fair market value of each stranded asset of the electric
corporation.
(4)  Nothing in this part may be construed to give the commission jurisdiction
over:
(a)  an improvement district, other than an electric improvement district;
(b)  a municipality; or
(c)  an association of municipalities organized under Title 11, Chapter 13,
Interlocal Cooperation Act.
(5)  Before an electric improvement district serves any customer, the electric
improvement district shall obtain a certificate of public convenience and
necessity from the commission.
(6) (a)  Section 54-7-12 does not apply to rate changes of an electric
improvement district if:
(i)  the district is organized for the purpose of distributing electricity to
customers within the boundary of the district on a not-for-profit basis;
(ii)  the schedule of new rates or other change that results in new rates has
been approved by the board of trustees of the district;
(iii)  prior to the implementation of any rate increases, the district first
holds a public meeting for all its customers to whom mailed notice of the
meeting is sent at least 10 days prior to the meeting; and
(iv)  the district has filed the schedule of new rates or other change with
the commission.
(b)  The commission shall make the district's schedule of new rates or other
change available for public inspection.
