17B-2a-802.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Appointing entity" means the person, county, unincorporated area of a county, or municipality appointing a member to a public transit district board of trustees.

(2) (a)  "Chief executive officer" means a person appointed by the board of trustees to serve as chief executive officer.

(b)  "Chief executive officer" shall enjoy all the rights, duties, and responsibilities defined in Sections 17B-2a-810 and 17B-2a-811 and includes all rights, duties, and responsibilities assigned to the general manager but prescribed by the board of trustees to be fulfilled by the chief executive officer.

(3)  "Department" means the Department of Transportation created in Section 72-1-201.

(4) (a)  "General manager" means a person appointed by the board of trustees to serve as general manager.

(b)  "General manager" shall enjoy all the rights, duties, and responsibilities defined in Sections 17B-2a-810 and 17B-2a-811 prescribed by the board of trustees.

(5) (a)  "Locally elected public official" means a person who holds an elected position with a county or municipality.

(b)  "Locally elected public official" does not include a person who holds an elected position if the elected position is not with a county or municipality.

(6)  "Multicounty district" means a public transit district located in more than one county.

(7)  "Operator" means a public entity or other person engaged in the transportation of passengers for hire.

(8)  "Public transit" means the transportation of passengers only and their incidental baggage by means other than:

(a)  chartered bus;

(b)  sightseeing bus; or

(c)  taxi.

(9)  "Transit facility" means a transit vehicle, transit station, depot, passenger loading or unloading zone, parking lot, or other facility:

(a)  leased by or operated by or on behalf of a public transit district; and

(b)  related to the public transit services provided by the district, including:

(i)  railway or other right-of-way;

(ii)  railway line; and

(iii)  a reasonable area immediately adjacent to a designated stop on a route traveled by a transit vehicle.

(10)  "Transit-oriented development" means a mixed-use residential or commercial area that is designed to maximize access to public transit.

(11)  "Transit vehicle" means a passenger bus, coach, railcar, van, or other vehicle operated as public transportation by a public transit district.



Amended by Chapter 146, 2011 General Session

