17B-2a-807.   Public transit district board of trustees -- Appointment --
Apportionment -- Qualifications -- Quorum -- Compensation -- Terms.
(1) (a)  If 200,000 people or fewer reside within the boundaries of a public
transit district, the board of trustees shall consist of members appointed by
the legislative bodies of each municipality, county, or unincorporated area
within any county on the basis of one member for each full unit of regularly
scheduled passenger routes proposed to be served by the district in each
municipality or unincorporated area within any county in the following
calendar year.
(b)  For purposes of determining membership under Subsection (1)(a), the
number of service miles comprising a unit shall be determined jointly by the
legislative bodies of the municipalities or counties comprising the district.
(c)  The board of trustees of a public transit district under this Subsection
(1) may include a member that is a commissioner on the Transportation
Commission created in Section 72-1-301 and appointed as provided in Subsection
(11), who shall serve as a nonvoting, ex officio member.
(d)  Members appointed under this Subsection (1) shall be appointed and added
to the board or omitted from the board at the time scheduled routes are
changed, or as municipalities, counties, or unincorporated areas of counties
annex to or withdraw from the district using the same appointment procedures.
(e)  For purposes of appointing members under this Subsection (1),
municipalities, counties, and unincorporated areas of counties in which
regularly scheduled passenger routes proposed to be served by the district in
the following calendar year is less than a full unit, as defined in Subsection
(1)(b), may combine with any other similarly situated municipality or
unincorporated area to form a whole unit and may appoint one member for each
whole unit formed.
(2) (a)  Subject to Section 17B-2a-807.5, if more than 200,000 people reside
within the boundaries of a public transit district, the board of trustees
shall consist of:
(i)  ten members:
(A)  appointed as described under this Subsection (2); or
(B)  retained in accordance with Section 17B-2a-807.5;
(ii)  three members appointed as described in Subsection (4); and
(iii)  one voting member appointed as provided in Subsection (11).
(b)  Except as provided in Subsections (2)(c) and (d), the board shall
apportion voting members to each county within the district using an average
of:
(i)  the proportion of population included in the district and residing within
each county, rounded to the nearest 1/10 of the total transit district
population; and
(ii)  the cumulative proportion of transit sales and use tax collected from
areas included in the district and within each county, rounded to the nearest
1/10 of the total cumulative transit sales and use tax collected for the
transit district.
(c)  The board shall join an entire or partial county not apportioned a voting
member under this Subsection (2) with an adjacent county for representation.
The combined apportionment basis included in the district of both counties
shall be used for the apportionment.
(d) (i)  If rounding to the nearest 1/10 of the total public transit district
apportionment basis under Subsection (2)(b) results in an apportionment of
more than ten members, the county or combination of counties with the smallest
additional fraction of a whole member proportion shall have one less member
apportioned to it.
(ii)  If rounding to the nearest 1/10 of the total public transit district
apportionment basis under Subsection (2)(b) results in an apportionment of
less than ten members, the county or combination of counties with the largest
additional fraction of a whole member proportion shall have one more member
apportioned to it.
(e)  If the population in the unincorporated area of a county is at least 1/10
of the district's population, the county executive, with the advice and
consent of the county legislative body, shall appoint one voting member to
represent each 1/10 of the district's population within a county's
unincorporated area population.
(f)  If a municipality's population is at least 160,000, the chief municipal
executive, with the advice and consent of the municipal legislative body,
shall appoint one voting member to represent the population within a
municipality.
(g) (i)  The number of voting members appointed from a county and
municipalities within a county under Subsections (2)(e) and (f) shall be
subtracted from the county's total voting member apportionment under this
Subsection (2).
(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsections (2)(l) and (10), no more than one voting
member appointed by an appointing entity may be a locally elected public
official.
(h)  If the entire county is within the district, the remaining voting members
for the county shall represent the county or combination of counties, if
Subsection (2)(c) applies, or the municipalities within the county.
(i)  If the entire county is not within the district, and the county is not
joined with another county under Subsection (2)(c), the remaining voting
members for the county shall represent a municipality or combination of
municipalities.
(j) (i)  Except as provided under Subsections (2)(e) and (f), voting members
representing counties, combinations of counties if Subsection (2)(c) applies,
or municipalities within the county shall be designated and appointed by a
simple majority of the chief executives of the municipalities within the
county or combinations of counties if Subsection (2)(c) applies.
(ii)  The appointments shall be made by joint written agreement of the
appointing municipalities, with the consent and approval of the county
legislative body of the county that has at least 1/10 of the district's
apportionment basis.
(k)  Voting members representing a municipality or combination of
municipalities shall be designated and appointed by the chief executive
officer of the municipality or simple majority of chief executive officers of
municipalities with the consent of the legislative body of the municipality or
municipalities.
(l)  The appointment of voting members shall be made without regard to
partisan political affiliation from among citizens in the community.
(m)  Each voting member shall be a bona fide resident of the municipality,
county, or unincorporated area or areas which the voting member is to
represent for at least six months before the date of appointment, and must
continue in that residency to remain qualified to serve as a voting member.
(n) (i)  All population figures used under this section shall be derived from
the most recent official census or census estimate of the United States Bureau
of the Census.
(ii)  If population estimates are not available from the United States Bureau
of Census, population figures shall be derived from the estimate from the Utah
Population Estimates Committee.
(iii)  All transit sales and use tax totals shall be obtained from the State
Tax Commission.
(o) (i)  The board shall be apportioned as provided under this section in
conjunction with the decennial United States Census Bureau report every ten
years.
(ii)  Within 120 days following the receipt of the population estimates under
this Subsection (2)(o), the district shall reapportion representation on the
board of trustees in accordance with this section.
(iii)  The board shall adopt by resolution a schedule reflecting the current
and proposed apportionment.
(iv)  Upon adoption of the resolution, the board shall forward a copy of the
resolution to each of its constituent entities as defined under Section
17B-1-701.
(v)  The appointing entities gaining a new board member shall appoint a new
member within 30 days following receipt of the resolution.
(vi)  The appointing entities losing a board member shall inform the board of
which member currently serving on the board will step down:
(A)  upon appointment of a new member under Subsection (2)(o)(v); or
(B)  in accordance with Section 17B-2a-807.5.
(3)  Upon the completion of an annexation to a public transit district under
Chapter 1, Part 4, Annexation, the annexed area shall have a representative on
the board of trustees on the same basis as if the area had been included in
the district as originally organized.
(4)  In addition to the voting members appointed in accordance with Subsection
(2), the board shall consist of three voting members appointed as follows:
(a)  one member appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives;
(b)  one member appointed by the president of the Senate; and
(c)  one member appointed by the governor.
(5) (a)  Except as provided in Section 17B-2a-807.5, the terms of office of
the voting members of the board shall be four years or until a successor is
appointed, qualified, seated, and has taken the oath of office.
(b) (i)  A voting member may not be appointed for more than three successive
full terms regardless of the appointing entity that appoints the voting
member.
(ii)  A person:
(A)  may serve no more than 12 years on a public transit district board of
trustees described in Subsection (2)(a) regardless of the appointing entity
that appoints the member; and
(B)  that has served 12 years on a public transit district board of trustees
described in Subsection (2)(a) is ineligible for reappointment to a public
transit board of trustees described in Subsection (2)(a).
(6) (a)  Vacancies for voting members shall be filled by the official
appointing the member creating the vacancy for the unexpired term, unless the
official fails to fill the vacancy within 90 days.
(b)  If the appointing official under Subsection (1) does not fill the vacancy
within 90 days, the board of trustees of the authority shall fill the vacancy.
(c)  If the appointing official under Subsection (2) does not fill the vacancy
within 90 days, the governor, with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall
fill the vacancy.
(7) (a)  Each voting member may cast one vote on all questions, orders,
resolutions, and ordinances coming before the board of trustees.
(b)  A majority of all voting members of the board of trustees are a quorum
for the transaction of business.
(c)  The affirmative vote of a majority of all voting members present at any
meeting at which a quorum was initially present shall be necessary and, except
as otherwise provided, is sufficient to carry any order, resolution,
ordinance, or proposition before the board of trustees.
(8)  Each public transit district shall pay to each voting member:
(a)  an attendance fee of $50 per board or committee meeting attended, not to
exceed $200 in any calendar month to any voting member; and
(b)  reasonable mileage and expenses necessarily incurred to attend board or
committee meetings.
(9) (a)  Members of the initial board of trustees shall convene at the time
and place fixed by the chief executive officer of the entity initiating the
proceedings.
(b) The board of trustees shall elect from its voting membership a chair, vice
chair, and secretary.
(c)  The members elected under Subsection (9)(b) shall serve for a period of
two years or until their successors shall be elected and qualified.
(d)  On or after January 1, 2011, a locally elected public official is not
eligible to serve as the chair, vice chair, or secretary of the board of
trustees.
(10)  Except as otherwise authorized under Subsection (2)(g) and Section 17B-
2a-807.5, at the time of a voting member's appointment or during a voting
member's tenure in office, a voting member may not hold any employment, except
as an independent contractor or locally elected public official, with a county
or municipality within the district.
(11)  The Transportation Commission created in Section 72-1-301:
(a)  for a public transit district serving a population of 200,000 people or
fewer, may appoint a commissioner of the Transportation Commission to serve on
the board of trustees as a nonvoting, ex officio member; and
(b)  for a public transit district serving a population of more than 200,000
people, shall appoint a commissioner of the Transportation Commission to serve
on the board of trustees as a voting member.
(12) (a) (i)  Each member of the board of trustees of a public transit
district is subject to recall at any time by the legislative body of the
county or municipality from which the member is appointed.
(ii)  Each recall of a board of trustees member shall be made in the same
manner as the original appointment.
(iii)  The legislative body recalling a board of trustees member shall provide
written notice to the member being recalled.
(b)  Upon providing written notice to the board of trustees, a member of the
board may resign from the board of trustees.
(c)  Except as provided in Section 17B-2a-807.5, if a board member is recalled
or resigns under this Subsection (12), the vacancy shall be filled as provided
in Subsection (6).
