17B-2a-810.   Officers of a public transit district.
(1) (a)  The officers of a public transit district shall consist of:
(i)  the members of the board of trustees;
(ii)  a chair and vice chair, appointed by the board of trustees, subject to
Subsection (1)(c);
(iii)  a secretary, appointed by the board of trustees;
(iv)  a general manager, appointed by the board of trustees as provided in
Section 17B-2a-811, whose duties may be allocated by the board of trustees, at
the board of trustees' discretion, to a chief executive officer, or both;
(v)  a chief executive officer appointed by the board of trustees, as provided
in Section 17B-2a-811;
(vi)  a general counsel, appointed by the board of trustees, subject to
Subsection (1)(d);
(vii)  a treasurer, appointed as provided in Section 17B-1-633;
(viii)  a comptroller, appointed by the board of trustees, subject to
Subsection (1)(e);
(ix)  an internal auditor, appointed by the board of trustees, subject to
Subsection (1)(f); and
(x)  other officers, assistants, and deputies that the board of trustees
considers necessary.
(b)  The board of trustees may, at its discretion, appoint a president, who
shall also be considered an officer of a public transit district.
(c)  The district chair and vice chair shall be members of the board of
trustees.
(d)  The person appointed as general counsel shall:
(i)  be admitted to practice law in the state; and
(ii)  have been actively engaged in the practice of law for at least seven
years next preceding the appointment.
(e)  The person appointed as comptroller shall have been actively engaged in
the practice of accounting for at least seven years next preceding the
appointment.
(f)  The person appointed as internal auditor shall be a licensed certified
internal auditor or certified public accountant with at least five years
experience in the auditing or public accounting profession, or the equivalent,
prior to appointment.
(2) (a)  The district's general manager or chief executive officer, as the
board prescribes, shall appoint all officers and employees not specified in
Subsection (1).
(b)  Each officer and employee appointed by the district's general manager or
chief executive officer serves at the pleasure of the appointing general
manager or chief executive officer.
(3)  The board of trustees shall by ordinance or resolution fix the
compensation of all district officers and employees, except as otherwise
provided in this part.
(4) (a)  Each officer appointed by the board of trustees or by the district's
general manager or chief executive officer shall take the oath of office
specified in Utah Constitution Article IV, Section 10.
(b)  Each oath under Subsection (4)(a) shall be subscribed and filed with the
district secretary no later than 15 days after the commencement of the
officer's term of office.
