17B-2a-814.   Conflict of interests prohibited -- Disclosure -- Violation --
Penalty.
(1)  As used in this section, "relative" means a parent, spouse, child,
grandparent, grandchild, great grandparent, great grandchild, or sibling of a
trustee, officer, or employee.
(2)  Except as provided in this section, a trustee, officer, or employee of a
public transit district may not be interested in any manner, directly or
indirectly, in a contract or in the profits derived from a contract:
(a)  awarded by the board of trustees; or
(b)  made by an officer or employee pursuant to discretionary authority vested
in the officer or employee.
(3)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2), if a trustee, officer, or employee of a
public transit district is a stockholder, bondholder, director, or other
officer or employee of a corporation contracting with the district, the
district may contract with that corporation for its general benefit unless the
trustee, officer, or employee of the district owns or controls, directly or
indirectly, stock or bonds in an amount greater than 5% of the total amount of
outstanding stock or bonds.
(4) (a) (i)  A trustee, officer, or employee of a public transit district who
has, or whose relative has, a substantial interest in a contract with, sale
to, purchase from, or service to the district shall disclose that interest to
the board of trustees of the district in a public meeting of the board.
(ii)  The board of trustees of the district shall disclose that interest in
the minutes of its meeting.
(b)  A trustee, officer, or employee of a public transit district who has, or
whose relative has, a substantial interest in a contract with, sale to,
purchase from, or service to the district may not vote upon or otherwise
participate in any manner as a trustee, officer, or employee in the contract,
sale, purchase, or service.
(5)  A trustee, officer, or employee of a public transit district, in
contemplation of official action by the trustee, officer, or employee or by
the district or in reliance on information to which the trustee, officer, or
employee has access in an official capacity and which has not been made
public, commits misuse of official information if the trustee, officer, or
employee:
(a)  acquires a pecuniary interest in any property, transaction, or enterprise
that may be affected by the information or official action;
(b)  speculates or wagers on the basis of the information or official action;
or
(c)  aids, advises, or encourages another to do so with intent to confer upon
any person a special pecuniary benefit.
(6)  Each trustee, officer, and employee who violates this section:
(a)  is guilty of a class B misdemeanor; and
(b)  if convicted, shall be terminated from board appointment or district
employment.
