4-2-7.   Agricultural Advisory Board created -- Composition --
Responsibility -- Terms of office -- Compensation.
(1)  There is created the Agricultural Advisory Board composed of 14 members
representing each of the following:
(a)  Utah Farm Bureau Federation;
(b)  Utah Farmers Union;
(c)  Utah Cattlemen's Association;
(d)  Utah Wool Growers' Association;
(e)  Utah Dairymen's Association;
(f)  Utah Pork Producer's Association;
(g)  egg and poultry producers;
(h)  Utah Veterinary Medical Association;
(i)  Livestock Auction Marketing Association;
(j)  Utah Association of Conservation Districts;
(k)  the Utah horse industry;
(l)  the food processing industry;
(m)  manufacturers of food supplements; and
(n)  a consumer affairs group.
(2)  The Agricultural Advisory Board shall advise the commissioner regarding:
(a)  the planning, implementation, and administration of the department's
programs; and
(b)  the establishment of standards governing the care of livestock and
poultry, as part of which the Agricultural Advisory Board may consider:
(i)  food safety;
(ii)  local availability and affordability of food; and
(iii)  acceptable practices for livestock and farm management.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(c), members are appointed by the
commissioner to four-year terms of office.
(b)  Representatives of the organizations cited in Subsections (1)(a)
through(h) shall be appointed to the Agricultural Advisory Board by the
commissioner from a list of nominees submitted by each organization.
(c)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the commissioner
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(d)  Members may be removed at the discretion of the commissioner upon the
request of the group they represent.
(e)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(4)  The board shall elect one member to serve as chair of the Agricultural
Advisory Board for a term of one year.
(5) (a)  The board shall meet four times annually, but may meet more often at
the discretion of the chair.
(b)  Attendance of seven members at a duly called meeting constitutes a quorum
for the transaction of official business.

(6)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
