78A-6-104.   Concurrent jurisdiction -- District court and juvenile court.
(1)  The district court or other court has concurrent jurisdiction with the
juvenile court as follows:
(a)  when a person who is 18 years of age or older and who is under the
continuing jurisdiction of the juvenile court under Section 78A-6-117 violates
any federal, state, or local law or municipal ordinance; and
(b)  in establishing paternity and ordering testing for the purposes of
establishing paternity, in accordance with Title 78B, Chapter 15, Utah Uniform
Parentage Act, with regard to proceedings initiated under Part 3, Abuse,
Neglect, and Dependency Proceedings, or Part 5, Termination of Parental Rights
Act.
(2)  The juvenile court has jurisdiction over petitions to modify a minor's
birth certificate if the court otherwise has jurisdiction over the minor.
(3)  This section does not deprive the district court of jurisdiction to
appoint a guardian for a child, or to determine the support, custody, and
parent-time of a child upon writ of habeas corpus or when the question of
support, custody, and parent-time is incidental to the determination of a
cause in the district court.
(4) (a)  Where a support, custody, or parent-time award has been made by a
district court in a divorce action or other proceeding, and the jurisdiction
of the district court in the case is continuing, the juvenile court may
acquire jurisdiction in a case involving the same child if the child is
dependent, abused, neglected, or otherwise comes within the jurisdiction of
the juvenile court under Section 78A-6-103.
(b)  The juvenile court may, by order, change the custody, subject to
Subsection 30-3-10(4), support, parent-time, and visitation rights previously
ordered in the district court as necessary to implement the order of the
juvenile court for the safety and welfare of the child.  The juvenile court
order remains in effect so long as the jurisdiction of the juvenile court
continues.
(c)  When a copy of the findings and order of the juvenile court has been
filed with the district court, the findings and order of the juvenile court
are binding on the parties to the divorce action as though entered in the
district court.
(5)  The juvenile court has jurisdiction over questions of custody, support,
and parent-time, of a minor who comes within the court's jurisdiction under
this section or Section 78A-6-103.
