78A-6-105.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1) (a)  "Abuse" means:
(i)  nonaccidental harm of a child;
(ii)  threatened harm of a child;
(iii)  sexual exploitation; or
(iv)  sexual abuse.
(b)  "Abuse" does not include:
(i)  reasonable discipline or management of a child, including withholding
privileges;
(ii)  conduct described in Section 76-2-401; or
(iii)  the use of reasonable and necessary physical restraint or force on a
child:
(A)  in self-defense;
(B)  in defense of others;
(C)  to protect the child; or
(D)  to remove a weapon in the possession of a child for any of the reasons
described in Subsections (1)(b)(iii)(A) through (C).
(2)  "Abused child" means a child who has been subjected to abuse.
(3)  "Adjudication" means a finding by the court, incorporated in a decree,
that the facts alleged in the petition have been proved.
(4)  "Adult" means a person 18 years of age or over, except that a person 18
years or over under the continuing jurisdiction of the juvenile court pursuant
to Section 78A-6-120 shall be referred to as a minor.
(5)  "Board" means the Board of Juvenile Court Judges.
(6)  "Child" means a person under 18 years of age.
(7)  "Child placement agency" means:
(a)  a private agency licensed to receive a child for placement or adoption
under this code; or
(b)  a private agency that receives a child for placement or adoption in
another state, which agency is licensed or approved where such license or
approval is required by law.
(8)  "Clandestine laboratory operation" is as defined in Section 58-37d-3.
(9)  "Commit" means, unless specified otherwise:
(a)  with respect to a child, to transfer legal custody; and
(b)  with respect to a minor who is at least 18 years of age, to transfer
custody.
(10)  "Court" means the juvenile court.
(11)  "Dependent child" includes a child who is homeless or without proper
care through no fault of the child's parent, guardian, or custodian.
(12)  "Deprivation of custody" means transfer of legal custody by the court
from a parent or the parents or a previous legal custodian to another person,
agency, or institution.
(13)  "Detention" means home detention and secure detention as defined in
Section 62A-7-101 for the temporary care of a minor who requires secure
custody in a physically restricting facility:
(a)  pending court disposition or transfer to another jurisdiction; or
(b)  while under the continuing jurisdiction of the court.
(14)  "Division" means the Division of Child and Family Services.
(15)  "Formal referral" means a written report from a peace officer or other
person informing the court that a minor is or appears to be within the court's
jurisdiction and that a petition may be filed.
(16)  "Group rehabilitation therapy" means psychological and social counseling
of one or more persons in the group, depending upon the recommendation of the
therapist.
(17)  "Guardianship of the person" includes the authority to consent to:
(a)  marriage;
(b)  enlistment in the armed forces;
(c)  major medical, surgical, or psychiatric treatment; or
(d)  legal custody, if legal custody is not vested in another person, agency,
or institution.
(18)  "Habitual truant" is as defined in Section 53A-11-101.
(19)  "Harm" means:
(a)  physical, emotional, or developmental injury or damage;
(b)  sexual abuse; or
(c)  sexual exploitation.
(20) (a)  "Incest" means engaging in sexual intercourse with a person whom the
perpetrator knows to be the perpetrator's ancestor, descendant, brother,
sister, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, or first cousin.
(b)  The relationships described in Subsection (20)(a) include:
(i)  blood relationships of the whole or half blood, without regard to
legitimacy;
(ii)  relationships of parent and child by adoption; and
(iii)  relationships of stepparent and stepchild while the marriage creating
the relationship of a stepparent and stepchild exists.
(21)  "Legal custody" means a relationship embodying the following rights and
duties:
(a)  the right to physical custody of the minor;
(b)  the right and duty to protect, train, and discipline the minor;
(c)  the duty to provide the minor with food, clothing, shelter, education,
and ordinary medical care;
(d)  the right to determine where and with whom the minor shall live; and
(e)  the right, in an emergency, to authorize surgery or other extraordinary
care.
(22)  "Minor" means:
(a)  a child; or
(b)  a person who is:
(i)  at least 18 years of age and younger than 21 years of age; and
(ii)  under the jurisdiction of the juvenile court.
(23)  "Molestation" means that a person, with the intent to arouse or gratify
the sexual desire of any person:
(a)  touches the anus or any part of the genitals of a child;
(b)  takes indecent liberties with a child; or
(c)  causes a child to take indecent liberties with the perpetrator or
another.
(24)  "Natural parent" means a minor's biological or adoptive parent, and
includes the minor's noncustodial parent.
(25) (a)  "Neglect" means:
(i)  abandonment of a child, except as provided in Title 62A, Chapter 4a, Part
8, Safe Relinquishment of a Newborn Child;
(ii)  lack of proper parental care of a child by reason of the fault or habits
of the parent, guardian, or custodian;
(iii)  failure or refusal of a parent, guardian, or custodian to provide
proper or necessary subsistence, education, or medical care, or any other care
necessary for the child's health, safety, morals, or well-being; or
(iv)  a child at risk of being neglected or abused because another child in
the same home is neglected or abused.
(b)  The aspect of neglect relating to education, described in Subsection
(25)(a)(iii), means that, after receiving a notice of compulsory education
violation under Section 53A-11-101.5, or notice that a parent or guardian has
failed to cooperate with school authorities in a reasonable manner as required
under Subsection 53A-11-101.7(5)(a), the parent or guardian fails to make a
good faith effort to ensure that the child receives an appropriate education.
(c)  A parent or guardian legitimately practicing religious beliefs and who,
for that reason, does not provide specified medical treatment for a child, is
not guilty of neglect.
(d) (i)  Notwithstanding Subsection (25)(a), a health care decision made for a
child by the child's parent or guardian does not constitute neglect unless the
state or other party to the proceeding shows, by clear and convincing
evidence, that the health care decision is not reasonable and informed.
(ii)  Nothing in Subsection (25)(d)(i) may prohibit a parent or guardian from
exercising the right to obtain a second health care opinion.
(26)  "Neglected child" means a child who has been subjected to neglect.
(27)  "Nonjudicial adjustment" means closure of the case by the assigned
probation officer without judicial determination upon the consent in writing
of:
(a)  the assigned probation officer; and
(b) (i)  the minor; or
(ii)  the minor and the minor's parent, legal guardian, or custodian.
(28)  "Physical abuse" means abuse that results in physical injury or damage
to a child.
(29)  "Probation" means a legal status created by court order following an
adjudication on the ground of a violation of law or under Section 78A-6-103,
whereby the minor is permitted to remain in the minor's home under prescribed
conditions and under supervision by the probation department or other agency
designated by the court, subject to return to the court for violation of any
of the conditions prescribed.
(30)  "Protective supervision" means a legal status created by court order
following an adjudication on the ground of abuse, neglect, or dependency,
whereby the minor is permitted to remain in the minor's home, and supervision
and assistance to correct the abuse, neglect, or dependency is provided by the
probation department or other agency designated by the court.
(31) (a)  "Residual parental rights and duties" means those rights and duties
remaining with the parent after legal custody or guardianship, or both, have
been vested in another person or agency, including:
(i)  the responsibility for support;
(ii)  the right to consent to adoption;
(iii)  the right to determine the child's religious affiliation; and
(iv)  the right to reasonable parent-time unless restricted by the court.
(b)  If no guardian has been appointed, "residual parental rights and duties"
also include the right to consent to:
(i)  marriage;
(ii)  enlistment; and
(iii)  major medical, surgical, or psychiatric treatment.
(32)  "Secure facility" means any facility operated by or under contract with
the Division of Juvenile Justice Services, that provides 24-hour supervision
and confinement for youth offenders committed to the division for custody and
rehabilitation.
(33)  "Severe abuse" means abuse that causes or threatens to cause serious
harm to a child.
(34)  "Severe neglect" means neglect that causes or threatens to cause serious
harm to a child.
(35)  "Sexual abuse" means:
(a)  an act or attempted act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, incest, or
molestation directed towards a child; or
(b)  engaging in any conduct with a child that would constitute an offense
under any of the following, regardless of whether the person who engages in
the conduct is actually charged with, or convicted of, the offense:
(i)  Title 76, Chapter 5, Part 4, Sexual Offenses;
(ii)  child bigamy, Section 76-7-101.5;
(iii)  incest, Section 76-7-102;
(iv)  lewdness or sexual battery, Section 76-9-702;
(v)  lewdness involving a child, Section 76-9-702.5; or
(vi)  voyeurism, Section 76-9-702.7.
(36)  "Sexual exploitation" means knowingly:
(a)  employing, using, persuading, inducing, enticing, or coercing any child
to:
(i)  pose in the nude for the purpose of sexual arousal of any person; or
(ii)  engage in any sexual or simulated sexual conduct for the purpose of
photographing, filming, recording, or displaying in any way the sexual or
simulated sexual conduct;
(b)  displaying, distributing, possessing for the purpose of distribution, or
selling material depicting a child:
(i)  in the nude, for the purpose of sexual arousal of any person; or
(ii)  engaging in sexual or simulated sexual conduct; or
(c)  engaging in any conduct that would constitute an offense under Title 76,
Chapter 5a, Sexual Exploitation of Children, regardless of whether the person
who engages in the conduct is actually charged with, or convicted of, the
offense.
(37)  "Shelter" means the temporary care of a child in a physically
unrestricted facility pending court disposition or transfer to another
jurisdiction.
(38)  "State supervision" means a disposition that provides a more intensive
level of intervention than standard probation but is less intensive or
restrictive than a community placement with the Division of Juvenile Justice
Services.
(39)  "Substance abuse" means the misuse or excessive use of alcohol or other
drugs or substances.
(40)  "Substantiated" is as defined in Section 62A-4a-101.
(41)  "Supported" is as defined in Section 62A-4a-101.
(42)  "Termination of parental rights" means the permanent elimination of all
parental rights and duties, including residual parental rights and duties, by
court order.
(43)  "Therapist" means:
(a)  a person employed by a state division or agency for the purpose of
conducting psychological treatment and counseling of a minor in its custody;
or
(b)  any other person licensed or approved by the state for the purpose of
conducting psychological treatment and counseling.
(44)  "Unsubstantiated" is as defined in Section 62A-4a-101.
(45)  "Without merit" is as defined in Section 62A-4a-101.
