78A-6-113.   Placement of minor in detention or shelter facility -- Grounds
-- Detention hearings -- Period of detention -- Notice -- Confinement for
criminal proceedings -- Bail laws inapplicable, exception.
(1) (a)  A minor may not be placed or kept in a secure detention facility
pending court proceedings unless it is unsafe for the public to leave the
minor with the minor's parents, guardian, or custodian and the minor is
detainable based on guidelines promulgated by the Division of Juvenile Justice
Services.
(b)  A child who must be taken from the child's home but who does not require
physical restriction shall be given temporary care in a shelter facility and
may not be placed in a detention facility.
(c)  A child may not be placed or kept in a shelter facility pending court
proceedings unless it is unsafe to leave the child with the child's parents,
guardian, or custodian.
(2)  After admission of a child to a detention facility pursuant to the
guidelines established by the Division of Juvenile Justice Services and
immediate investigation by an authorized officer of the court, the judge or
the officer shall order the release of the child to the child's parents,
guardian, or custodian if it is found the child can be safely returned to
their care, either upon written promise to bring the child to the court at a
time set or without restriction.
(a)  If a child's parent, guardian, or custodian fails to retrieve the child
from a facility within 24 hours after notification of release, the parent,
guardian, or custodian is responsible for the cost of care for the time the
child remains in the facility.
(b)  The facility shall determine the cost of care.
(c)  Any money collected under this Subsection (2) shall be retained by the
Division of Juvenile Justice Services to recover the cost of care for the time
the child remains in the facility.
(3) (a)  When a child is detained in a detention or shelter facility, the
parents or guardian shall be informed by the person in charge of the facility
that they have the right to a prompt hearing in court to determine whether the
child is to be further detained or released.
(b)  When a minor is detained in a detention facility, the minor shall be
informed by the person in charge of the facility that the minor has the right
to a prompt hearing in court to determine whether the minor is to be further
detained or released.
(c)  Detention hearings shall be held by the judge or by a commissioner.
(d)  The court may, at any time, order the release of the minor, whether a
detention hearing is held or not.
(e)  If a child is released, and the child remains in the facility, because
the parents, guardian, or custodian fails to retrieve the child, the parents,
guardian, or custodian shall be responsible for the cost of care as provided
in Subsections (2)(a), (b), and (c).
(4) (a)  A minor may not be held in a detention facility longer than 48 hours
prior to a detention hearing, excluding weekends and holidays, unless the
court has entered an order for continued detention.
(b)  A child may not be held in a shelter facility longer than 48 hours prior
to a shelter hearing, excluding weekends and holidays, unless a court order
for extended shelter has been entered by the court after notice to all parties
described in Section 78A-6-306.
(c)  A hearing for detention or shelter may not be waived.  Detention staff
shall provide the court with all information received from the person who
brought the minor to the detention facility.
(d)  If the court finds at a detention hearing that it is not safe to release
the minor, the judge or commissioner may order the minor to be held in the
facility or be placed in another appropriate facility, subject to further
order of the court.
(e) (i)  After a detention hearing has been held, only the court may release a
minor from detention.  If a minor remains in a detention facility, periodic
reviews shall be held pursuant to the Utah State Juvenile Court Rules of
Practice and Procedure to ensure that continued detention is necessary.
(ii)  After a detention hearing for a violent felony, as defined in Section
76-3-203.5, or an offense in violation of Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 5,
Weapons, the court shall direct that notice of its decision, including any
disposition, order, or no contact orders, be provided to designated persons in
the appropriate local law enforcement agency and district superintendent or
the school or transferee school, if applicable, that the minor attends.  The
designated persons may receive the information for purposes of the minor's
supervision and student safety.
(iii)  Any employee of the local law enforcement agency, school district, and
the school that the minor attends who discloses the court's order of probation
is not:
(A)  civilly liable except when the disclosure constitutes fraud or willful
misconduct as provided in Section 63G-7-202; and
(B)  civilly or criminally liable except when disclosure constitutes a knowing
violation of Section 63G-2-801.
(5)  A minor may not be held in a detention facility, following a
dispositional order of the court for nonsecure substitute care as defined in
Section 62A-4a-101, or for community-based placement under Section 62A-7-101
for longer than 72 hours, excluding weekends and holidays.  The period of
detention may be extended by the court for one period of seven calendar days
if:
(a)  the Division of Juvenile Justice Services or another agency responsible
for placement files a written petition with the court requesting the extension
and setting forth good cause; and
(b)  the court enters a written finding that it is in the best interests of
both the minor and the community to extend the period of detention.
(6)  The agency requesting an extension shall promptly notify the detention
facility that a written petition has been filed.
(7)  The court shall promptly notify the detention facility regarding its
initial disposition and any ruling on a petition for an extension, whether
granted or denied.
(8) (a)  A child under 16 years of age may not be held in a jail, lockup, or
other place for adult detention except as provided by Section 62A-7-201 or
unless certified as an adult pursuant to Section 78A-6-703.  The provisions of
Section 62A-7-201 regarding confinement facilities apply to this Subsection
(8).
(b)  A child 16 years of age or older whose conduct or condition endangers the
safety or welfare of others in the detention facility for children may, by
court order that specifies the reasons, be detained in another place of
confinement considered appropriate by the court, including a jail or other
place of confinement for adults.  However, a secure youth corrections facility
is not an appropriate place of confinement for detention purposes under this
section.
(9)  A sheriff, warden, or other official in charge of a jail or other
facility for the detention of adult offenders or persons charged with crime
shall immediately notify the juvenile court when a person who is or appears to
be under 18 years of age is received at the facility and shall make
arrangements for the transfer of the person to a detention facility, unless
otherwise ordered by the juvenile court.
(10)  This section does not apply to a minor who is brought to the adult
facility under charges pursuant to Section 78A-6-702 or by order of the
juvenile court to be held for criminal proceedings in the district court under
Section 78A-6-703.
(11)  A minor held for criminal proceedings under Section 78A-6-702 or
78A-6-703 may be detained in a jail or other place of detention used for
adults charged with crime.
(12)  Provisions of law regarding bail are not applicable to minors detained
or taken into custody under this chapter, except that bail may be allowed:
(a)  if a minor who need not be detained lives outside this state; or
(b)  when a minor who need not be detained comes within one of the classes in
Subsection 78A-6-603(11).
(13)  Section 76-8-418 is applicable to a child who willfully and
intentionally commits an act against a jail or other place of confinement,
including a Division of Juvenile Justice Services detention, shelter, or
secure confinement facility which would be a third degree felony if committed
by an adult.
