78A-6-114.   Hearings -- Public excluded, exceptions -- Victims admitted --
Minor's cases heard separately from adult cases -- Minor or parents or
custodian heard separately -- Continuance of hearing -- Consolidation of
proceedings involving more than one minor.
(1)  Hearings in minor's cases shall be held before the court without a jury
and may be conducted in an informal manner.
(a) (i)  In abuse, neglect, and dependency cases the court shall admit any
person to a hearing, including a hearing under Section 78A-6-322, unless the
court makes a finding upon the record that the person's presence at the
hearing would:
(A)  be detrimental to the best interest of a child who is a party to the
proceeding;
(B)  impair the fact-finding process; or
(C)  be otherwise contrary to the interests of justice.
(ii)  The court may exclude a person from a hearing under Subsection (1)(a)(i)
on its own motion or by motion of a party to the proceeding.
(b)  In delinquency cases the court shall admit all persons who have a direct
interest in the case and may admit persons requested by the parent or legal
guardian to be present.  The court shall exclude all other persons except as
provided in Subsection (1)(c).
(c)  In delinquency cases in which the minor charged is 14 years of age or
older, the court shall admit any person unless the hearing is closed by the
court upon findings on the record for good cause if:
(i)  the minor has been charged with an offense which would be a felony if
committed by an adult; or
(ii)  the minor is charged with an offense that would be a class A or B
misdemeanor if committed by an adult, and the minor has been previously
charged with an offense which would be a misdemeanor or felony if committed by
an adult.
(d)  The victim of any act charged in a petition or information involving an
offense committed by a minor which if committed by an adult would be a felony
or a class A or class B misdemeanor shall, upon request, be afforded all
rights afforded victims in Title 77, Chapter 36, Cohabitant Abuse Procedures
Act, Title 77, Chapter 37, Victims' Rights, and Title 77, Chapter 38, Rights
of Crime Victims Act.  The notice provisions in Section 77-38-3 do not apply
to important juvenile justice hearings as defined in Section 77-38-2.
(e)  A victim, upon request to appropriate juvenile court personnel, shall
have the right to inspect and duplicate juvenile court legal records that have
not been expunged concerning:
(i)  the scheduling of any court hearings on the petition;
(ii)  any findings made by the court; and
(iii)  any sentence or decree imposed by the court.
(2)  Minor's cases shall be heard separately from adult cases.  The minor or
the parents or custodian of a minor may be heard separately when considered
necessary by the court.  The hearing may be continued from time to time to a
date specified by court order.
(3)  When more than one child is involved in a home situation which may be
found to constitute neglect or dependency, or when more than one minor is
alleged to be involved in the same law violation, the proceedings may be
consolidated, except that separate hearings may be held with respect to
disposition.
