78A-6-115.   Hearings -- Record -- County attorney or district attorney
responsibilities -- Attorney general responsibilities -- Disclosure --
Admissibility of evidence.
(1) (a)  A verbatim record of the proceedings shall be taken by an official
court reporter or by means of a mechanical recording device in all cases that
might result in deprivation of custody as defined in this chapter.  In all
other cases a verbatim record shall also be made unless dispensed with by the
court.
(b) (i)  Notwithstanding any other provision, including Title 63G, Chapter 2,
Government Records Access and Management Act, a record of a proceeding made
under Subsection (1)(a) shall be released by the court to any person upon a
finding on the record for good cause.
(ii)  Following a petition for a record of a proceeding made under Subsection
(1)(a), the court shall:
(A)  provide notice to all subjects of the record that a request for release
of the record has been made; and
(B)  allow sufficient time for the subjects of the record to respond before
making a finding on the petition.
(iii)  A record of a proceeding may not be released under this Subsection
(1)(b) if the court's jurisdiction over the subjects of the proceeding ended
more than 12 months prior to the request.
(iv)  For purposes of this Subsection (1)(b):
(A)  "record of a proceeding" does not include documentary materials of any
type submitted to the court as part of the proceeding, including items
submitted under Subsection (4)(a); and
(B)  "subjects of the record" includes the child's guardian ad litem, the
child's legal guardian, the Division of Child and Family Services, and any
other party to the proceeding.
(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), the county attorney or, if
within a prosecution district, the district attorney shall represent the state
in any proceeding in a minor's case.
(b)  The attorney general shall enforce all provisions of Title 62A, Chapter
4a, Child and Family Services, and this chapter, relating to:
(i)  protection or custody of an abused, neglected, or dependent child; and
(ii)  petitions for termination of parental rights.
(c)  The attorney general shall represent the Division of Child and Family
Services in actions involving a minor who is not adjudicated as abused or
neglected, but who is otherwise committed to the custody of that division by
the juvenile court, and who is classified in the division's management
information system as having been placed in custody primarily on the basis of
delinquent behavior or a status offense.  Nothing in this Subsection (2)(c)
may be construed to affect the responsibility of the county attorney or
district attorney to represent the state in those matters, in accordance with
the provisions of Subsection (2)(a).
(3)  The board may adopt special rules of procedure to govern proceedings
involving violations of traffic laws or ordinances, wildlife laws, and boating
laws.  However, proceedings involving offenses under Section 78A-6-606 are
governed by that section regarding suspension of driving privileges.
(4) (a)  For the purposes of determining proper disposition of the minor in
dispositional hearings and establishing the fact of abuse, neglect, or
dependency in adjudication hearings and in hearings upon petitions for
termination of parental rights, written reports and other material relating to
the minor's mental, physical, and social history and condition may be received
in evidence and may be considered by the court along with other evidence.  The
court may require that the person who wrote the report or prepared the
material appear as a witness if the person is reasonably available.
(b)  For the purpose of determining proper disposition of a minor alleged to
be or adjudicated as abused, neglected, or dependent, dispositional reports
prepared by the division under Section 78A-6-315 may be received in evidence
and may be considered by the court along with other evidence.  The court may
require any person who participated in preparing the dispositional report to
appear as a witness, if the person is reasonably available.
(5) (a)  In an abuse, neglect, or dependency proceeding occurring after the
commencement of a shelter hearing under Section 78A-6-306 or the filing of a
petition under Section 78A-6-304, each party to the proceeding shall provide
in writing to the other parties or their counsel any information which the
party:
(i)  plans to report to the court at the proceeding; or
(ii)  could reasonably expect would be requested of the party by the court at
the proceeding.
(b)  The disclosure required under Subsection (5)(a) shall be made:
(i)  for dispositional hearings under Sections 78A-6-311 and 78A-6-312, no
less than five days before the proceeding;
(ii)  for proceedings under Title 78A, Chapter 6, Part 5, Termination of
Parental Rights Act, in accordance with Utah Rules of Civil Procedure; and
(iii)  for all other proceedings, no less than five days before the
proceeding.
(c)  If a party to a proceeding obtains information after the deadline in
Subsection (5)(b), the information is exempt from the disclosure required
under Subsection (5)(a) if the party certifies to the court that the
information was obtained after the deadline.
(d)  Subsection (5)(a) does not apply to:
(i)  pretrial hearings; and
(ii)  the frequent, periodic review hearings held in a dependency drug court
case to assess and promote the parent's progress in substance abuse treatment.
(6)  For the purpose of establishing the fact of abuse, neglect, or
dependency, the court may, in its discretion, consider evidence of statements
made by a child under eight years of age to a person in a trust relationship.
