78A-6-117.   Adjudication of jurisdiction of juvenile court -- Disposition of cases -- Enumeration of possible court orders -- Considerations of court -- Obtaining DNA sample.

(1) (a)  When a minor is found to come within the provisions of Section 78A-6-103, the court shall so adjudicate.  The court shall make a finding of the facts upon which it bases its jurisdiction over the minor.  However, in cases within the provisions of Subsection 78A-6-103(1), findings of fact are not necessary.

(b)  If the court adjudicates a minor for a crime of violence or an offense in violation of Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 5, Weapons, it shall order that notice of the adjudication be provided to the school superintendent of the district in which the minor resides or attends school.  Notice shall be made to the district superintendent within three days of the adjudication and shall include:

(i)  the specific offenses for which the minor was adjudicated; and

(ii)  if available, if the victim:

(A)  resides in the same school district as the minor; or

(B)  attends the same school as the minor.

(2)  Upon adjudication the court may make the following dispositions by court order:

(a) (i)  The court may place the minor on probation or under protective supervision in the minor's own home and upon conditions determined by the court, including compensatory service as provided in Subsection (2)(m)(iii).

(ii)  The court may place the minor in state supervision with the probation department of the court, under the legal custody of:

(A) the minor's parent or guardian;

(B)  the Division of Juvenile Justice Services; or

(C)  the Division of Child and Family Services.

(iii)  If the court orders probation or state supervision, the court shall direct that notice of its order be provided to designated persons in the local law enforcement agency and the school or transferee school, if applicable, that the minor attends.  The designated persons may receive the information for purposes of the minor's supervision and student safety.

(iv)  Any employee of the local law enforcement agency and the school that the minor attends who discloses the court's order of probation is not:

(A)  civilly liable except when the disclosure constitutes fraud or willful misconduct as provided in Section 63G-7-202; and

(B)  civilly or criminally liable except when the disclosure constitutes a knowing violation of Section 63G-2-801.

(b)  The court may place the minor in the legal custody of a relative or other suitable person, with or without probation or protective supervision, but the juvenile court may not assume the function of developing foster home services.

(c) (i)  The court may:

(A)  vest legal custody of the minor in the Division of Child and Family Services, Division of Juvenile Justice Services, or the Division of Substance Abuse and Mental Health; and

(B)  order the Department of Human Services to provide dispositional recommendations and services.

(ii)  For minors who may qualify for services from two or more divisions within the Department of Human Services, the court may vest legal custody with the department.

(iii) (A)  A minor who is committed to the custody of the Division of Child and Family Services on grounds other than abuse or neglect is subject to the provisions of Title 78A, Chapter 6, Part 4, Minors in Custody on Grounds Other than Abuse or Neglect, and Title 62A, Chapter 4a, Part 2a, Minors in Custody on Grounds other than Abuse or Neglect.

(B) Before the court entering an order to place a minor in the custody of the Division of Child and Family Services on grounds other than abuse or neglect, the court shall provide the division with notice of the hearing no later than five days before the time specified for the hearing so the division may attend the hearing.

(C) Before committing a child to the custody of the Division of Child and Family Services, the court shall make a finding as to what reasonable efforts have been attempted to prevent the child's removal from the child's home.

(d) (i)  The court may commit a minor to the Division of Juvenile Justice Services for secure confinement.

(ii)  A minor under the jurisdiction of the court solely on the ground of abuse, neglect, or dependency under Subsection 78A-6-103(1)(c) may not be committed to the Division of Juvenile Justice Services.

(e)  The court may commit a minor, subject to the court retaining continuing jurisdiction over the minor, to the temporary custody of the Division of Juvenile Justice Services for observation and evaluation for a period not to exceed 45 days, which period may be extended up to 15 days at the request of the director of the Division of Juvenile Justice Services.

(f) (i)  The court may commit a minor to a place of detention or an alternative to detention for a period not to exceed 30 days subject to the court retaining continuing jurisdiction over the minor.  This commitment may be stayed or suspended upon conditions ordered by the court.

(ii)  This Subsection (2)(f) applies only to a minor adjudicated for:

(A)  an act which if committed by an adult would be a criminal offense; or

(B)  contempt of court under Section 78A-6-1101.

(g)  The court may vest legal custody of an abused, neglected, or dependent minor in the Division of Child and Family Services or any other appropriate person in accordance with the requirements and procedures of Title 78A, Chapter 6, Part 3, Abuse, Neglect, and Dependency Proceedings.

(h)  The court may place a minor on a ranch or forestry camp, or similar facility for care and also for work, if possible, if the person, agency, or association operating the facility has been approved or has otherwise complied with all applicable state and local laws.  A minor placed in a forestry camp or similar facility may be required to work on fire prevention, forestation and reforestation, recreational works, forest roads, and on other works on or off the grounds of the facility and may be paid wages, subject to the approval of and under conditions set by the court.

(i) (i)  The court may order a minor to repair, replace, or otherwise make restitution for damage or loss caused by the minor's wrongful act, including costs of treatment as stated in Section 78A-6-321 and impose fines in limited amounts.

(ii)  The court may also require a minor to reimburse an individual, entity, or governmental agency who offered and paid a reward to a person or persons for providing information resulting in a court adjudication that the minor is within the jurisdiction of the juvenile court due to the commission of a criminal offense.

(iii)  If a minor is returned to this state under the Interstate Compact on Juveniles, the court may order the minor to make restitution for costs expended by any governmental entity for the return.

(j)  The court may issue orders necessary for the collection of restitution and fines ordered by the court, including garnishments, wage withholdings, and executions.

(k) (i)  The court may through its probation department encourage the development of employment or work programs to enable minors to fulfill their obligations under Subsection (2)(i) and for other purposes considered desirable by the court.

(ii)  Consistent with the order of the court, the probation officer may permit a minor found to be within the jurisdiction of the court to participate in a program of work restitution or compensatory service in lieu of paying part or all of the fine imposed by the court.

(l) (i)  In violations of traffic laws within the court's jurisdiction, the court may, in addition to any other disposition authorized by this section:

(A)  restrain the minor from driving for periods of time the court considers necessary; and

(B)  take possession of the minor's driver license.

(ii)  The court may enter any other disposition under Subsection (2)(l)(i).  However, the suspension of driving privileges for an offense under Section 78A-6-606 is governed only by Section 78A-6-606.

(m) (i)  When a minor is found within the jurisdiction of the juvenile court under Section 78A-6-103 because of violating Section 58-37-8, Title 58, Chapter 37a, Utah Drug Paraphernalia Act, or Title 58, Chapter 37b, Imitation Controlled Substances Act, the court shall, in addition to any fines or fees otherwise imposed, order that the minor perform a minimum of 20 hours, but no more than 100 hours, of compensatory service.  Satisfactory completion of an approved substance abuse prevention or treatment program may be credited by the court as compensatory service hours.

(ii)  When a minor is found within the jurisdiction of the juvenile court under Section 78A-6-103 because of a violation of Section 32B-4-409 or Subsection 76-9-701(1), the court may, upon the first adjudication, and shall, upon a second or subsequent adjudication, order that the minor perform a minimum of 20 hours, but no more than 100 hours of compensatory service, in addition to any fines or fees otherwise imposed.  Satisfactory completion of an approved substance abuse prevention or treatment program may be credited by the court as compensatory service hours.

(iii)  When a minor is found within the jurisdiction of the juvenile court under Section 78A-6-103 because of a violation of Section 76-6-106 or 76-6-206 using graffiti, the court may order the minor to clean up graffiti created by the minor or any other person at a time and place within the jurisdiction of the court.  Compensatory service required under this section may be performed in the presence and under the direct supervision of the minor's parent or legal guardian.  The parent or legal guardian shall report completion of the order to the court.  The minor or the minor's parent or legal guardian, if applicable, shall be responsible for removal costs as determined under Section 76-6-107, unless waived by the court for good cause.  The court may also require the minor to perform other alternative forms of restitution or repair to the damaged property pursuant to Subsection 77-18-1(8).

(A)  For a first adjudication, the court may require the minor to clean up graffiti for not less than eight hours.

(B)  For a second adjudication, the court may require the minor to clean up graffiti for not less than 16 hours.

(C)  For a third adjudication, the court may require the minor to clean up graffiti for not less than 24 hours.

(n) (i)  Subject to Subsection (2)(n)(iii), the court may order that a minor:

(A)  be examined or treated by a physician, surgeon, psychiatrist, or psychologist; or

(B)  receive other special care.

(ii)  For purposes of receiving the examination, treatment, or care described in Subsection (2)(n)(i), the court may place the minor in a hospital or other suitable facility.

(iii)  In determining whether to order the examination, treatment, or care described in Subsection (2)(n)(i), the court shall consider:

(A)  the desires of the minor;

(B)  if the minor is under the age of 18, the desires of the parents or guardian of the minor; and

(C)  whether the potential benefits of the examination, treatment, or care outweigh the potential risks and side-effects, including behavioral disturbances, suicidal ideation, brain function impairment, or emotional or physical harm resulting from the compulsory nature of the examination, treatment, or care.

(o) (i)  The court may appoint a guardian for the minor if it appears necessary in the interest of the minor, and may appoint as guardian a public or private institution or agency in which legal custody of the minor is vested.

(ii)  In placing a minor under the guardianship or legal custody of an individual or of a private agency or institution, the court shall give primary consideration to the welfare of the minor.  When practicable, the court may take into consideration the religious preferences of the minor and of a child's parents.

(p) (i)  In support of a decree under Section 78A-6-103, the court may order reasonable conditions to be complied with by a minor's parents or guardian, a minor, a minor's custodian, or any other person who has been made a party to the proceedings.  Conditions may include:

(A)  parent-time by the parents or one parent;

(B)  restrictions on the minor's associates;

(C)  restrictions on the minor's occupation and other activities; and

(D)  requirements to be observed by the parents or custodian.

(ii)  A minor whose parents or guardians successfully complete a family or other counseling program may be credited by the court for detention, confinement, or probation time.

(q)  The court may order the child to be committed to the physical custody of a local mental health authority, in accordance with the procedures and requirements of Title 62A, Chapter 15, Part 7, Commitment of Persons Under Age 18 to Division of Substance Abuse and Mental Health.

(r) (i)  The court may make an order committing a minor within the court's jurisdiction to the Utah State Developmental Center if the minor has an intellectual disability in accordance with the provisions of Title 62A, Chapter 5, Part 3, Admission to an Intermediate Care Facility for People with an Intellectual Disability.

(ii)  The court shall follow the procedure applicable in the district courts with respect to judicial commitments to the Utah State Developmental Center when ordering a commitment under Subsection (2)(r)(i).

(s)  The court may terminate all parental rights upon a finding of compliance with the provisions of Title 78A, Chapter 6, Part 5, Termination of Parental Rights Act.

(t)  The court may make any other reasonable orders for the best interest of the minor or as required for the protection of the public, except that a child may not be committed to jail or prison.

(u)  The court may combine the dispositions listed in this section if they are compatible.

(v)  Before depriving any parent of custody, the court shall give due consideration to the rights of parents concerning their child.  The court may transfer custody of a minor to another person, agency, or institution in accordance with the requirements and procedures of Title 78A, Chapter 6, Part 3, Abuse, Neglect, and Dependency Proceedings.

(w)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(y)(i), an order under this section for probation or placement of a minor with an individual or an agency shall include a date certain for a review of the case by the court.  A new date shall be set upon each review.

(x)  In reviewing foster home placements, special attention shall be given to making adoptable children available for adoption without delay.

(y) (i)  The juvenile court may enter an order of permanent custody and guardianship with an individual or relative of a child where the court has previously acquired jurisdiction as a result of an adjudication of abuse, neglect, or dependency.  The juvenile court may enter an order for child support on behalf of the child against the natural or adoptive parents of the child.

(ii)  Orders under Subsection (2)(y)(i):

(A)  shall remain in effect until the child reaches majority;

(B)  are not subject to review under Section 78A-6-118; and

(C)  may be modified by petition or motion as provided in Section 78A-6-1103.

(iii)  Orders permanently terminating the rights of a parent, guardian, or custodian and permanent orders of custody and guardianship do not expire with a termination of jurisdiction of the juvenile court.

(3)  In addition to the dispositions described in Subsection (2), when a minor comes within the court's jurisdiction, the minor may be given a choice by the court to serve in the National Guard in lieu of other sanctions, provided:

(a)  the minor meets the current entrance qualifications for service in the National Guard as determined by a recruiter, whose determination is final;

(b)  the minor is not under the jurisdiction of the court for any act that:

(i)  would be a felony if committed by an adult;

(ii)  is a violation of Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act; or

(iii)  was committed with a weapon; and

(c)  the court retains jurisdiction over the minor under conditions set by the court and agreed upon by the recruiter or the unit commander to which the minor is eventually assigned.

(4) (a)  A DNA specimen shall be obtained from a minor who is under the jurisdiction of the court as described in Subsection 53-10-403(3).  The specimen shall be obtained by designated employees of the court or, if the minor is in the legal custody of the Division of Juvenile Justice Services, then by designated employees of the division under Subsection 53-10-404(5)(b).

(b)  The responsible agency shall ensure that employees designated to collect the saliva DNA specimens receive appropriate training and that the specimens are obtained in accordance with accepted protocol.

(c)  Reimbursements paid under Subsection 53-10-404(2)(a) shall be placed in the DNA Specimen Restricted Account created in Section 53-10-407.

(d)  Payment of the reimbursement is second in priority to payments the minor is ordered to make for restitution under this section and treatment under Section 78A-6-321.



Amended by Chapter 366, 2011 General Session

