78A-6-118.   Period of operation of judgment, decree, or order -- Rights and
responsibilities of agency or individual granted legal custody.
(1)  A judgment, order, or decree of the juvenile court does not operate after
the minor becomes 21 years of age, except for:
(a)  orders of commitment to the Utah State Developmental Center or to the
custody of the Division of Substance Abuse and Mental Health;
(b)  adoption orders under Subsection 78A-6-103(1);
(c)  orders permanently terminating the rights of a parent, guardian, or
custodian, and permanent orders of custody and guardianships; and
(d)  unless terminated by the court, orders to pay any fine or restitution.
(2) (a)  Except as provided in Part 3, Abuse, Neglect, and Dependency
Proceedings, an order vesting legal custody or guardianship of a minor in an
individual, agency, or institution may be for an indeterminate period.  A
review hearing shall be held, however, upon the expiration of 12 months, and,
with regard to petitions filed by the Division of Child and Family Services,
no less than once every six months thereafter.  The individual, agency, or
institution involved shall file the petition for that review hearing.  The
court may terminate the order, or after notice and hearing, continue the order
if it finds continuation of the order necessary to safeguard the welfare of
the minor or the public interest.  The findings of the court and its reasons
shall be entered with the continuation order or with the order denying
continuation.
(b)  Subsection (2)(a) does not apply to minors who are in the custody of the
Division of Child and Family Services, and who are placed in foster care, a
secure youth corrections facility, the Division of Substance Abuse and Mental
Health, the Utah State Developmental Center, or any agency licensed for child
placements and adoptions, in cases where all parental rights of the natural
parents have been terminated by the court under Part 5, Termination of
Parental Rights Act, and custody of the minor has been granted to the agency
for adoption or other permanent placement.
(3) (a)  An agency granted legal custody may determine where and with whom the
minor will live, provided that placement of the minor does not remove him from
the state without court approval.
(b)  An individual granted legal custody shall personally exercise the rights
and responsibilities involved in legal custody, unless otherwise authorized by
the court.
