78A-6-312.   Dispositional hearing -- Reunification services -- Exceptions.
(1)  The court may:
(a)  make any of the dispositions described in Section 78A-6-117;
(b)  place the minor in the custody or guardianship of any:
(i)  individual; or
(ii)  public or private entity or agency; or
(c)  order:
(i)  protective supervision;
(ii)  family preservation;
(iii)  subject to Subsection 78A-6-117(2)(n)(iii), medical or mental health
treatment; or
(iv)  other services.
(2) (a) (i)  Whenever the court orders continued removal at the dispositional
hearing, and that the minor remain in the custody of the division, the court
shall first:
(A)  establish a primary permanency goal for the minor; and
(B)  determine whether, in view of the primary permanency goal, reunification
services are appropriate for the minor and the minor's family, pursuant to
Subsection (3).
(ii)  Subject to Subsection (2)(b), if the court determines that reunification
services are appropriate for the minor and the minor's family, the court shall
provide for reasonable parent-time with the parent or parents from whose
custody the minor was removed, unless parent-time is not in the best interest
of the minor.
(iii) (A)  In cases where obvious sexual abuse, sexual exploitation,
abandonment, severe abuse, or severe neglect are involved, neither the
division nor the court has any duty to make "reasonable efforts" or to, in any
other way, attempt to provide reunification services, or to attempt to
rehabilitate the offending parent or parents.
(B)  In all cases, the minor's health, safety, and welfare shall be the
court's paramount concern in determining whether reasonable efforts to reunify
should be made.
(b) (i)  For purposes of Subsection (2)(a)(ii), parent-time is in the best
interests of a minor unless the court makes a finding that it is necessary to
deny parent-time in order to:
(A)  protect the physical safety of the minor;
(B)  protect the life of the minor; or
(C)  prevent the minor from being traumatized by contact with the parent due
to the minor's fear of the parent in light of the nature of the alleged abuse
or neglect.
(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a)(ii), a court may not deny parent-time
based solely on a parent's failure to:
(A)  prove that the parent has not used legal or illegal substances; or
(B)  comply with an aspect of the child and family plan that is ordered by the
court.
(c) (i)  In addition to the primary permanency goal, the court shall establish
a concurrent permanency goal that shall include:
(A)  a representative list of the conditions under which the primary
permanency goal will be abandoned in favor of the concurrent permanency goal;
and
(B)  an explanation of the effect of abandoning or modifying the primary
permanency goal.
(ii)  A permanency hearing shall be conducted in accordance with Subsection
78A-6-314(1)(b) within 30 days after the day on which the dispositional
hearing ends if something other than reunification is initially established as
a minor's primary permanency goal.
(iii) (A)  The court may amend a minor's primary permanency goal before the
establishment of a final permanency plan under Section 78A-6-314.
(B)  The court is not limited to the terms of the concurrent permanency goal
in the event that the primary permanency goal is abandoned.
(C)  If, at any time, the court determines that reunification is no longer a
minor's primary permanency goal, the court shall conduct a permanency hearing
in accordance with Section 78A-6-314 on or before the earlier of:
(I)  30 days after the day on which the court makes the determination
described in this Subsection (2)(c)(iii)(C); or
(II)  the day on which the provision of reunification services, described in
Section 78A-6-314, ends.
(d) (i) (A)  If the court determines that reunification services are
appropriate, it shall order that the division make reasonable efforts to
provide services to the minor and the minor's parent for the purpose of
facilitating reunification of the family, for a specified period of time.
(B)  In providing the services described in Subsection (2)(d)(i)(A), the
minor's health, safety, and welfare shall be the division's paramount concern,
and the court shall so order.
(ii)  The court shall:
(A)  determine whether the services offered or provided by the division under
the child and family plan constitute "reasonable efforts" on the part of the
division;
(B)  determine and define the responsibilities of the parent under the child
and family plan in accordance with Subsection 62A-4a-205(6)(e); and
(C)  identify on the record the responsibilities described in Subsection
(2)(d)(ii)(B), for the purpose of assisting in any future determination
regarding the provision of reasonable efforts, in accordance with state and
federal law.
(iii) (A)  The time period for reunification services may not exceed 12 months
from the date that the minor was initially removed from the minor's home,
unless the time period is extended under Subsection 78A-6-314(8).
(B)  Nothing in this section may be construed to entitle any parent to an
entire 12 months of reunification services.
(iv)  If reunification services are ordered, the court may terminate those
services at any time.
(v)  If, at any time, continuation of reasonable efforts to reunify a minor is
determined to be inconsistent with the final permanency plan for the minor
established pursuant to Section 78A-6-314, then measures shall be taken, in a
timely manner, to:
(A)  place the minor in accordance with the permanency plan; and
(B)  complete whatever steps are necessary to finalize the permanent placement
of the minor.
(e)  Any physical custody of the minor by the parent or a relative during the
period described in Subsection (2)(d) does not interrupt the running of the
period.
(f) (i)  If reunification services are ordered, a permanency hearing shall be
conducted by the court in accordance with Section 78A-6-314 at the expiration
of the time period for reunification services.
(ii)  The permanency hearing shall be held no later than 12 months after the
original removal of the minor.
(iii)  If reunification services are not ordered, a permanency hearing shall
be conducted within 30 days, in accordance with Section 78A-6-314.
(g)  With regard to a minor who is 36 months of age or younger at the time the
minor is initially removed from the home, the court shall:
(i)  hold a permanency hearing eight months after the date of the initial
removal, pursuant to Section 78A-6-314; and
(ii)  order the discontinuance of those services after eight months from the
initial removal of the minor from the home if the parent or parents have not
made substantial efforts to comply with the child and family plan.
(h)  With regard to a minor in the custody of the division whose parent or
parents are ordered to receive reunification services but who have abandoned
that minor for a period of six months from the date that reunification
services were ordered:
(i)  the court shall terminate reunification services; and
(ii)  the division shall petition the court for termination of parental
rights.
(i)  When a court conducts a permanency hearing for a minor under Section
78A-6-314, the court shall attempt to keep the minor's sibling group together
if keeping the sibling group together is:
(i)  practicable; and
(ii)  in accordance with the best interest of the minor.
(3) (a)  Because of the state's interest in and responsibility to protect and
provide permanency for minors who are abused, neglected, or dependent, the
Legislature finds that a parent's interest in receiving reunification services
is limited.
(b)  The court may determine that:
(i)  efforts to reunify a minor with the minor's family are not reasonable or
appropriate, based on the individual circumstances; and
(ii)  reunification services should not be provided.
(c)  In determining "reasonable efforts" to be made with respect to a minor,
and in making "reasonable efforts," the minor's health, safety, and welfare
shall be the paramount concern.
(d) (i)  There is a presumption that reunification services should not be
provided to a parent if the court finds, by clear and convincing evidence,
that any of the following circumstances exist:
(A)  the whereabouts of the parents are unknown, based upon a verified
affidavit indicating that a reasonably diligent search has failed to locate
the parent;
(B)  subject to Subsection (3)(d)(ii), the parent is suffering from a mental
illness of such magnitude that it renders the parent incapable of utilizing
reunification services;
(C)  the minor was previously adjudicated as an abused child due to physical
abuse, sexual abuse, or sexual exploitation, and following the adjudication
the minor:
(I)  was removed from the custody of the minor's parent;
(II)  was subsequently returned to the custody of the parent; and
(III)  is being removed due to additional physical abuse, sexual abuse, or
sexual exploitation;
(D)  the parent:
(I)  caused the death of another minor through abuse or neglect; or
(II)  committed, aided, abetted, attempted, conspired, or solicited to commit:
(Aa)  murder or manslaughter of a child; or
(Bb)  child abuse homicide;
(E)  the minor suffered severe abuse by the parent or by any person known by
the parent, if the parent knew or reasonably should have known that the person
was abusing the minor;
(F)  the minor is adjudicated an abused child as a result of severe abuse by
the parent, and the court finds that it would not benefit the minor to pursue
reunification services with the offending parent;
(G)  the parent's rights are terminated with regard to any other minor;
(H)  the minor is removed from the minor's home on at least two previous
occasions and reunification services were offered or provided to the family at
those times;
(I)  the parent has abandoned the minor for a period of six months or longer;
(J)  the parent permitted the child to reside, on a permanent or temporary
basis, at a location where the parent knew or should have known that a
clandestine laboratory operation was located; or
(K)  any other circumstance that the court determines should preclude
reunification efforts or services.
(ii)  The finding under Subsection (3)(d)(i)(B) shall be based on competent
evidence from at least two medical or mental health professionals, who are not
associates, establishing that, even with the provision of services, the parent
is not likely to be capable of adequately caring for the minor within 12
months after the day on which the court finding is made.
(4)  In determining whether reunification services are appropriate, the court
shall take into consideration:
(a)  failure of the parent to respond to previous services or comply with a
previous child and family plan;
(b)  the fact that the minor was abused while the parent was under the
influence of drugs or alcohol;
(c)  any history of violent behavior directed at the child or an immediate
family member;
(d)  whether a parent continues to live with an individual who abused the
minor;
(e)  any patterns of the parent's behavior that have exposed the minor to
repeated abuse;
(f)  testimony by a competent professional that the parent's behavior is
unlikely to be successful; and
(g)  whether the parent has expressed an interest in reunification with the
minor.
(5) (a)  If reunification services are not ordered pursuant to Subsection (3),
and the whereabouts of a parent become known within six months after the day
on which the out-of-home placement of the minor is made, the court may order
the division to provide reunification services.
(b)  The time limits described in Subsection (2) are not tolled by the
parent's absence.
(6) (a)  If a parent is incarcerated or institutionalized, the court shall
order reasonable services unless it determines that those services would be
detrimental to the minor.
(b)  In making the determination described in Subsection (6)(a), the court
shall consider:
(i)  the age of the minor;
(ii)  the degree of parent-child bonding;
(iii)  the length of the sentence;
(iv)  the nature of the treatment;
(v)  the nature of the crime or illness;
(vi)  the degree of detriment to the minor if services are not offered;
(vii)  for a minor 10 years of age or older, the minor's attitude toward the
implementation of family reunification services; and
(viii)  any other appropriate factors.
(c)  Reunification services for an incarcerated parent are subject to the time
limitation imposed in Subsection (2).
(d)  Reunification services for an institutionalized parent are subject to the
time limitation imposed in Subsection (2), unless the court determines that
continued reunification services would be in the minor's best interest.
(7)  If, pursuant to Subsections (3)(d)(i)(B) through (K), the court does not
order reunification services, a permanency hearing shall be conducted within
30 days, in accordance with Section 78A-6-314.
