78A-6-314.   Permanency hearing -- Final plan -- Petition for termination of
parental rights filed -- Hearing on termination of parental rights.
(1) (a)  When reunification services have been ordered in accordance with
Section 78A-6-312, with regard to a minor who is in the custody of the
Division of Child and Family Services, a permanency hearing shall be held by
the court no later than 12 months after the day on which the minor was
initially removed from the minor's home.
(b)  If reunification services were not ordered at the dispositional hearing,
a permanency hearing shall be held within 30 days after the day on which the
dispositional hearing ends.
(2) (a)  If reunification services were ordered by the court in accordance
with Section 78A-6-312, the court shall, at the permanency hearing, determine,
consistent with Subsection (3), whether the minor may safely be returned to
the custody of the minor's parent.
(b)  If the court finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, that return of
the minor to the minor's parent would create a substantial risk of detriment
to the minor's physical or emotional well-being, the minor may not be returned
to the custody of the minor's parent.
(c)  Prima facie evidence that return of the minor to a parent or guardian
would create a substantial risk of detriment to the minor is established if
the parent or guardian fails to:
(i)  participate in a court approved child and family plan;
(ii)  comply with a court approved child and family plan in whole or in part;
or
(iii)  meet the goals of a court approved child and family plan.
(3)  In making a determination under Subsection (2)(a), the court shall review
and consider:
(a)  the report prepared by the Division of Child and Family Services;
(b)  any admissible evidence offered by the minor's guardian ad litem;
(c)  any report submitted by the division under Subsection 78A-6-315(3)(a)(i);
(d)  any evidence regarding the efforts or progress demonstrated by the
parent; and
(e)  the extent to which the parent cooperated and utilized the services
provided.
(4)  With regard to a case where reunification services were ordered by the
court, if a minor is not returned to the minor's parent or guardian at the
permanency hearing, the court shall, unless the time for the provision of
reunification services is extended under Subsection (8):
(a)  order termination of reunification services to the parent;
(b)  make a final determination regarding whether termination of parental
rights, adoption, or permanent custody and guardianship is the most
appropriate final plan for the minor, taking into account the minor's primary
permanency goal established by the court pursuant to Section 78A-6-312; and
(c)  establish a concurrent plan that identifies the second most appropriate
final plan for the minor.
(5)  If the Division of Child and Family Services documents to the court that
there is a compelling reason that adoption, reunification, guardianship, and a
placement described in Subsection 78A-6-306(6)(e) are not in the minor's best
interest, the court may order another planned permanent living arrangement, in
accordance with federal law.
(6)  If the minor clearly desires contact with the parent, the court shall
take the minor's desire into consideration in determining the final plan.
(7)  Except as provided in Subsection (8), the court may not extend
reunification services beyond 12 months after the day on which the minor was
initially removed from the minor's home, in accordance with the provisions of
Section 78A-6-312.
(8) (a)  Subject to Subsection (8)(b), the court may extend reunification
services for no more than 90 days if the court finds, beyond a preponderance
of the evidence, that:
(i)  there has been substantial compliance with the child and family plan;
(ii)  reunification is probable within that 90-day period; and
(iii)  the extension is in the best interest of the minor.
(b) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (8)(c), the court may not extend any
reunification services beyond 15 months after the day on which the minor was
initially removed from the minor's home.
(ii)  Delay or failure of a parent to establish paternity or seek custody does
not provide a basis for the court to extend services for that parent beyond
the 12-month period described in Subsection (7).
(c)  In accordance with Subsection (8)(d), the court may extend reunification
services for one additional 90-day period, beyond the 90-day period described
in Subsection (8)(a), if:
(i)  the court finds, by clear and convincing evidence, that:
(A)  the parent has substantially complied with the child and family plan;
(B)  it is likely that reunification will occur within the additional 90-day
period; and
(C)  the extension is in the best interest of the child;
(ii)  the court specifies the facts upon which the findings described in
Subsection (8)(c)(i) are based; and
(iii)  the court specifies the time period in which it is likely that
reunification will occur.
(d)  A court may not extend the time period for reunification services without
complying with the requirements of this Subsection (8) before the extension.
(e)  In determining whether to extend reunification services for a minor, a
court shall take into consideration the status of the minor siblings of the
minor.
(9)  The court may, in its discretion:
(a)  enter any additional order that it determines to be in the best interest
of the minor, so long as that order does not conflict with the requirements
and provisions of Subsections (4) through (8); or
(b)  order the division to provide protective supervision or other services to
a minor and the minor's family after the division's custody of a minor has
been terminated.
(10)  If the final plan for the minor is to proceed toward termination of
parental rights, the petition for termination of parental rights shall be
filed, and a pretrial held, within 45 calendar days after the permanency
hearing.
(11) (a)  Any party to an action may, at any time, petition the court for an
expedited permanency hearing on the basis that continuation of reunification
efforts are inconsistent with the permanency needs of the minor.
(b)  If the court so determines, it shall order, in accordance with federal
law, that:
(i)  the minor be placed in accordance with the permanency plan; and
(ii)  whatever steps are necessary to finalize the permanent placement of the
minor be completed as quickly as possible.
(12)  Nothing in this section may be construed to:
(a)  entitle any parent to reunification services for any specified period of
time;
(b)  limit a court's ability to terminate reunification services at any time
prior to a permanency hearing; or
(c)  limit or prohibit the filing of a petition for termination of parental
rights by any party, or a hearing on termination of parental rights, at any
time prior to a permanency hearing.
(13) (a)  Subject to Subsection (13)(b), if a petition for termination of
parental rights is filed prior to the date scheduled for a permanency hearing,
the court may consolidate the hearing on termination of parental rights with
the permanency hearing.
(b)  For purposes of Subsection (13)(a), if the court consolidates the hearing
on termination of parental rights with the permanency hearing:
(i)  the court shall first make a finding regarding whether reasonable efforts
have been made by the Division of Child and Family Services to finalize the
permanency goal for the minor; and
(ii)  any reunification services shall be terminated in accordance with the
time lines described in Section 78A-6-312.
(c)  A decision on a petition for termination of parental rights shall be made
within 18 months from the day on which the minor is removed from the minor's
home.
(14)  If a court determines that a child will not be returned to a parent of
the child, the court shall consider appropriate placement options inside and
outside of the state.
