78A-6-318.   Review of foster care removal -- Foster parent's standing.
(1)  With regard to a child in the custody of the Division of Child and Family
Services who is the subject of a petition alleging abuse, neglect, or
dependency, and who has been placed in foster care with a foster family, the
Legislature finds that:
(a)  except with regard to the child's natural parents, a foster family has a
very limited but recognized interest in its familial relationship with the
child; and
(b)  children in the custody of the division are experiencing multiple changes
in foster care placements with little or no documentation, and that numerous
studies of child growth and development emphasize the importance of stability
in foster care living arrangements.
(2)  For the reasons described in Subsection (1), the Legislature finds that,
except with regard to the child's natural parents, procedural due process
protections must be provided to a foster family prior to removal of a foster
child from the foster home.
(3) (a)  A foster parent who has had a foster child in the foster parent's
home for 12 months or longer may petition the juvenile court for a review and
determination of the appropriateness of a decision by the Division of Child
and Family Services to remove the child from the foster home, unless the
removal was for the purpose of:
(i)  returning the child to the child's natural parent or legal guardian;
(ii)  immediately placing the child in an approved adoptive home;
(iii)  placing the child with a relative, as defined in Subsection
78A-6-307(1)(b), who obtained custody or asserted an interest in the child
within the preference period described in Subsection 78A-6-307(18)(a); or
(iv)  placing an Indian child in accordance with preplacement preferences and
other requirements described in the Indian Child Welfare Act, 25 U.S.C. Sec.
1915.
(b)  The foster parent may petition the court under this section without
exhausting administrative remedies within the division.
(c)  The court may order the division to place the child in a specified home,
and shall base its determination on the best interest of the child.
(4)  The requirements of this section do not apply to the removal of a child
based on a foster parent's request for that removal.
