78A-6-503.   Judicial process for termination -- Parent unfit or incompetent -- Best interest of child.

(1)  Under both the United States Constitution and the constitution of this state, a parent possesses a fundamental liberty interest in the care, custody, and management of the parent's child.

(2)  The court shall provide a fundamentally fair process to a parent if a party moves to terminate parental rights.

(3)  If the party moving to terminate parental rights is a governmental entity, the court shall find that any actions or allegations made in opposition to the rights and desires of a parent regarding the parent's child are supported by sufficient evidence to satisfy a parent's constitutional entitlement to heightened protection against government interference with the parent's fundamental rights and liberty interests.

(4)  The fundamental liberty interest of a parent concerning the care, custody, and management of the parent's child is recognized, protected, and does not cease to exist simply because a parent may fail to be a model parent or because the parent's child is placed in the temporary custody of the state.

(5)  At all times, a parent retains a vital interest in preventing the irretrievable destruction of family life.

(6)  Prior to an adjudication of unfitness, government action in relation to a parent and a parent's child may not exceed the least restrictive means or alternatives available to accomplish a compelling state interest.

(7)  Until parental unfitness is established, the child and the child's parent share a vital interest in preventing erroneous termination of their relationship and the court may not presume that a child and the child's parents are adversaries.

(8)  It is in the best interest and welfare of a child to be raised under the care and supervision of the child's natural parents.  A child's need for a normal family life in a permanent home, and for positive, nurturing family relationships is usually best met by the child's natural parents.  Additionally, the integrity of the family unit and the right of parents to conceive and raise their children are constitutionally protected.

(9)  The right of a fit, competent parent to raise the parent's child without undue government interference is a fundamental liberty interest that has long been protected by the laws and Constitution of this state and of the United States, and is a fundamental public policy of this state.

(10)  The state recognizes that:

(a)  a parent has the right, obligation, responsibility, and authority to raise, manage, train, educate, provide for, and reasonably discipline the parent's children; and

(b)  the state's role is secondary and supportive to the primary role of a parent.

(c)  It is the public policy of this state that parents retain the fundamental right and duty to exercise primary control over the care, supervision, upbringing, and education of their children.

(11)  This part provides a judicial process for voluntary and involuntary severance of the parent-child relationship, designed to safeguard the rights and interests of all parties concerned and promote their welfare and that of the state.

(12)  Wherever possible family life should be strengthened and preserved, but if a parent is found, by reason of his conduct or condition, to be unfit or incompetent based upon any of the grounds for termination described in this part, the court shall then consider the welfare and best interest of the child of paramount importance in determining whether termination of parental rights shall be ordered.

