78A-6-514.   Voluntary relinquishment -- Irrevocable.
(1)  Voluntary relinquishment or consent for termination of parental rights
shall be signed or confirmed under oath either:
(a)  before a judge of any court that has jurisdiction over proceedings for
termination of parental rights in this state or any other state, or a public
officer appointed by that court for the purpose of taking consents or
relinquishments; or
(b)  except as provided in Subsection (2), any person authorized to take
consents or relinquishments under Subsections 78B-6-124(1) and (2).
(2)  Only the juvenile court is authorized to take consents or relinquishments
from a parent who has any child who is in the custody of a state agency or who
has a child who is otherwise under the jurisdiction of the juvenile court.
(3)  The court, appointed officer, or other authorized person shall certify to
the best of that person's information and belief that the person executing the
consent or relinquishment has read and understands the consent or
relinquishment and has signed it freely and voluntarily.
(4)  A voluntary relinquishment or consent for termination of parental rights
is effective when it is signed and may not be revoked.
(5)  The requirements and processes described in Sections 78A-6-503 through
78A-6-510 do not apply to a voluntary relinquishment or consent for
termination of parental rights.  The court need only find that the
relinquishment or termination is in the child's best interest.
(6)  There is a presumption that voluntary relinquishment or consent for
termination of parental rights is not in the child’s best interest where it
appears to the court that the primary purpose is to avoid a financial support
obligation.  The presumption may be rebutted, however, if the court finds the
relinquishment or consent to termination of parental rights will facilitate
the establishment of stability and permanency for the child.
(7)  Upon granting a voluntary relinquishment the court may make orders
relating to the child's care and welfare that the court considers to be in the
child's best interest.
