78A-6-703 (Superseded 11/01/10).   Certification hearings -- Juvenile court
to hold preliminary hearing -- Factors considered by juvenile court for waiver
of jurisdiction to district court.
(1)  If a criminal information filed in accordance with Subsection
78A-6-602(3) alleges the commission of an act which would constitute a felony
if committed by an adult, the juvenile court shall conduct a preliminary
hearing.
(2)  At the preliminary hearing the state shall have the burden of going
forward with its case and the burden of establishing:
(a)  probable cause to believe that a crime was committed and that the
defendant committed it; and
(b)  by a preponderance of the evidence, that it would be contrary to the best
interests of the minor or of the public for the juvenile court to retain
jurisdiction.
(3)  In considering whether or not it would be contrary to the best interests
of the minor or of the public for the juvenile court to retain jurisdiction,
the juvenile court shall consider, and may base its decision on, the finding
of one or more of the following factors:
(a)  the seriousness of the offense and whether the protection of the
community requires isolation of the minor beyond that afforded by juvenile
facilities;
(b)  whether the alleged offense was committed by the minor in concert with
two or more persons under circumstances which would subject the minor to
enhanced penalties under Section 76-3-203.1 were he an adult;
(c)  whether the alleged offense was committed in an aggressive, violent,
premeditated, or willful manner;
(d)  whether the alleged offense was against persons or property, greater
weight being given to offenses against persons, except as provided in Section
76-8-418;
(e)  the maturity of the minor as determined by considerations of his home,
environment, emotional attitude, and pattern of living;
(f)  the record and previous history of the minor;
(g)  the likelihood of rehabilitation of the minor by use of facilities
available to the juvenile court;
(h)  the desirability of trial and disposition of the entire offense in one
court when the minor's associates in the alleged offense are adults who will
be charged with a crime in the district court;
(i)  whether the minor used a firearm in the commission of an offense; and
(j)  whether the minor possessed a dangerous weapon on or about school
premises as provided in Section 76-10-505.5.
(4)  The amount of weight to be given to each of the factors listed in
Subsection (3) is discretionary with the court.
(5) (a)  Written reports and other materials relating to the minor's mental,
physical, educational, and social history may be considered by the court.
(b)  If requested by the minor, the minor's parent, guardian, or other
interested party, the court shall require the person or agency preparing the
report and other material to appear and be subject to both direct and cross-
examination.
(6)  At the conclusion of the state's case, the minor may testify under oath,
call witnesses, cross-examine adverse witnesses, and present evidence on the
factors required by Subsection (3).
(7)  If the court finds the state has met its burden under Subsection (2), the
court may enter an order:
(a)  certifying that finding; and
(b)  directing that the minor be held for criminal proceedings in the district
court.
(8)  If an indictment is returned by a grand jury, the preliminary examination
held by the juvenile court need not include a finding of probable cause, but
the juvenile court shall proceed in accordance with this section regarding the
additional consideration referred to in Subsection (2)(b).
(9)  The provisions of Section 78A-6-115, Section 78A-6-1111, and other
provisions relating to proceedings in juvenile cases are applicable to the
hearing held under this section to the extent they are pertinent.
(10)  A minor who has been directed to be held for criminal proceedings in the
district court is not entitled to a preliminary examination in the district
court.
(11)  A minor who has been certified for trial in the district court shall
have the same right to bail as any other criminal defendant and shall be
advised of that right by the juvenile court judge.  The juvenile court shall
set initial bail in accordance with Title 77, Chapter 20, Bail.
(12)  When a minor has been certified to the district court under this
section, the jurisdiction of the Division of Juvenile Justice Services and the
jurisdiction of the juvenile court over the minor is terminated regarding that
offense, any other offenses arising from the same criminal episode, and any
subsequent misdemeanors or felonies charged against him, except as provided in
Subsection (14).
(13)  If a minor enters a plea to, or is found guilty of any of the charges
filed or on any other offense arising out of the same criminal episode, the
district court retains jurisdiction over the minor for all purposes, including
sentencing.
(14)  The juvenile court under Section 78A-6-103 and the Division of Juvenile
Justice Services regain jurisdiction and any authority previously exercised
over the minor when there is an acquittal, a finding of not guilty, or
dismissal of all charges in the district court.
