78A-6-1208.   Youth Court Board -- Membership -- Responsibilities.

(1)  The Utah attorney general's office shall provide staff support and assistance to a Youth Court Board comprised of the following:

(a)  the Utah attorney general or the attorney general's designee;

(b)  one prosecuting attorney appointed by the Utah Prosecution Council;

(c)  one juvenile court judge appointed by the Board of Juvenile Court Judges;

(d)  the juvenile court administrator or the administrator's designee;

(e)  the executive director of the Utah Commission on Criminal and Juvenile Justice or the director's designee;

(f)  the state superintendent of education or the state superintendent's designee;

(g)  two representatives, appointed by the Youth Court Association, from youth courts based primarily in schools;

(h)  two representatives, appointed by the Youth Court Association, from youth courts based primarily in communities;

(i)  one member from the law enforcement community appointed by the Youth Court Board;

(j)  one member from the community at large appointed by the Youth Court Board; and

(k)  the president of the Utah Youth Court Association.

(2)  The members selected to fill the positions in Subsections (1)(a) through (f) shall jointly select the members to fill the positions in Subsections (1)(g) through (j).

(3)  Members shall serve two-year staggered terms beginning July 1, 2012, except the initial terms of the members designated by Subsections (1)(b), (c), (i), and (j) and one of the members from Subsections (1)(g) and (h) shall serve two-year terms, but may be reappointed for a full four-year term upon the expiration of their initial term.

(4)  The Youth Court Board shall meet at least quarterly to:

(a)  set minimum standards for the establishment of youth courts, including an application process, membership and training requirements, and the qualifications for the adult coordinator;

(b)  review certification applications; and

(c)  provide for a process to recertify each youth court every three years.

(5)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the Youth Court Board shall make rules to accomplish the requirements of Subsection (3).

(6)  The Youth Court Board may deny certification, recertification, or withdraw the certification of any youth court for failure to comply with program requirements.

(7)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(8)  The Youth Court Board shall provide a list of certified youth courts to the Board of Juvenile Court Judges, all law enforcement agencies in the state, all school districts, and the Utah Prosecution Council by October 1 of each year.



Amended by Chapter 27, 2013 General Session

