63J-7-101.   Definitions.
(1)  As used in this chapter:
(a) (i)  "Agency" means a department, division, committee, commission,
council, court, or other administrative subunit of the state.
(ii)  "Agency" includes executive branch entities and judicial branch
entities.
(iii)  "Agency" does not mean higher education institutions or political
subdivisions.
(b) (i)  "Grant" means cash or other monies donated to an agency by a grantor.
(ii)  "Grant" includes a reauthorization of an existing grant.
(iii)  "Grant" does not mean:
(A)  monies appropriated to an agency by the Legislature;
(B)  monies received from the United States government;
(C)  monies legally required to be paid to the state; or
(D)  monies legally required to be repaid by the state.
(c)  "Grantor" means the individual, group of individuals, foundation,
corporation, or public or private organization making the grant.
(d)  "Grant reauthorization" means the formal submission from an agency to the
grantor applying for reauthorization or seeking reauthorization of a grant.
(e)  "Grant summary" means a document detailing:
(i)  the amount of money that is being requested or is available to be
received by the agency from a grant;
(ii)  the duration of the grant and provisions for its reauthorization or
extension, if any;
(iii)  the name of the grantor;
(iv)  the purpose of the grant, including, in detail, any programs, resources,
and positions required to be funded by the grant;
(v)  any requirements that the agency must meet as a condition to receive or
participate in the grant; and
(vi)  the amount of state monies, if any, that will be required in order to
obtain the grant.
(f)  "New state monies" means monies, whether specifically appropriated by the
Legislature or not, that the grantor requires Utah to expend as a condition
for receiving the grant.
(g)  "State" means the state of Utah and all of its agencies, and any
administrative subunits of those agencies.
(2)  When this chapter describes an employee as a "permanent full-time
employee" or a "permanent part-time employee," it is not intended to, and may
not be construed to, affect the employee's status as an at-will employee.
