9-18-102.   Martin Luther King, Jr. Civil Rights Support Restricted Account.

(1)  There is created in the General Fund a restricted account known as the "Martin Luther King, Jr. Civil Rights Support Restricted Account."

(2)  The account shall be funded by:

(a)  contributions deposited into the account in accordance with Section 41-1a-422;

(b)  private contributions; and

(c)  donations or grants from public or private entities.

(3)  Upon appropriation by the Legislature, the department shall distribute funds in the account to one or more charitable organizations that:

(a)  qualify as being tax exempt under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;

(b)  is located within the state and is not affiliated with a parent organization;

(c)  create or support programs that promote awareness and education of constitutional and civil rights;

(d)  provide education and training in inalienable rights as set forth in the Declaration of Independence;

(e)  partner with educational institutions to administer underrepresented or underserved scholarships; and

(f)  partner with government agencies within the state and the private sector to administer and facilitate an underrepresented or underserved internship program.

(4) (a)  An organization described in Subsection (3) may apply to the department to receive a distribution in accordance with Subsection (3).

(b)  An organization that receives a distribution from the department in accordance with Subsection (3) shall expend the distribution only to:

(i)  facilitate, coordinate, and encourage appropriate ceremonies and activities that commemorate the federal Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday;

(ii)  create or support programs that promote awareness and education of constitutional and civil rights;

(iii)  provide education and training in inalienable rights as set forth in the Declaration of Independence;

(iv)  partner with educational institutions to administer underrepresented or underserved scholarships;

(v)  partner with government agencies within the state and the private sector to administer and facilitate an underrepresented or underserved internship program; and

(vi)  pay the costs of issuing or reordering Martin Luther King, Jr. Civil Rights Support special group license plate decals.

(c)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the department may make rules providing procedures for an organization to apply to the department to receive a distribution under this Subsection (3).

(5)  In accordance with Section 63J-1-602.1, appropriations from the account are nonlapsing.



Enacted by Chapter 332, 2012 General Session

