64-13e-104.   Housing of state probationary inmates or state parole inmates
-- Payment.
(1) (a)  A county shall accept and house a state probationary inmate or a
state parole inmate in a county correctional facility, subject to available
resources.
(b)  If a county is unable to accept a person due to lack of resources, the
county shall negotiate with another county to accept and house the person.
(2)  Within funds appropriated by the Legislature for this purpose, the
Division of Finance shall pay a county that houses a state probationary inmate
or a state parole inmate at a rate of 50% of the final state daily
incarceration rate.
(3)  Funds appropriated by the Legislature under Subsection (2):
(a)  are nonlapsing;
(b)  may only be used for the purposes described in Subsection (2); and
(c)  may not be used for:
(i)  the costs of administering the payment described in this section; or
(ii)  payment of contract costs under Section 64-13e-103.
(4)  The costs described in Subsection (3)(c)(i) shall be covered by
legislative appropriation.
(5) (a)  The Division of Finance shall administer the payment described in
Subsection (2).
(b) In accordance with Subsection (9), CCJJ shall, by rule made pursuant to
Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, establish procedures
for the calculation of the payment described in Subsection (2).
(c)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, CCJJ shall adjust
the amount of the payments described in Subsection (7)(b), on a pro rata
basis, to ensure that the total amount of the payments made does not exceed
the amount appropriated by the Legislature for the payments.
(6)  Counties that receive the payment described in Subsection (2) shall, on
at least a monthly basis, submit a report to CCJJ that includes:
(a)  the number of state probationary inmates and state parole inmates the
county housed under this section; and
(b)  the total number of state probationary inmate days of incarceration and
state parole inmate days of incarceration that were provided by the county.
(7) (a)  On or before September 1 of each year, CCJJ shall compile the
information from the reports described in Subsection (6) that relate to the
preceding state fiscal year and provide a copy of the compilation to each
county that submitted a report.
(b)  On or before September 30 of each year, CCJJ shall inform the Division of
Finance and each county of the exact amount of the payment described in this
section that shall be made to each county.
(8)  On or before December 15 of each year, the Division of Finance shall
distribute the payment described in Subsection (7)(b) in a single payment to
each county.
(9)  The amount paid to each county under Subsection (8) shall be calculated
on a pro rata basis, based on the number of state probationary inmate days of
incarceration and state parole inmate days of incarceration that were provided
by each county for the preceding state fiscal year.
