41-22-2.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Advisory council" means the Off-highway Vehicle Advisory Council appointed by the Board of Parks and Recreation.

(2)  "All-terrain type I vehicle" means any motor vehicle 52 inches or less in width, having an unladen dry weight of 1,500 pounds or less, traveling on three or more low pressure tires, having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator, and designed for or capable of travel over unimproved terrain.

(3) (a)  "All-terrain type II vehicle" means any other motor vehicle, not defined in Subsection (2), (11), or (22), designed for or capable of travel over unimproved terrain.

(b)  "All-terrain type II vehicle" includes a class A side-by-side vehicle.

(c)  "All-terrain type II vehicle" does not include golf carts, any vehicle designed to carry a person with a disability, any vehicle not specifically designed for recreational use, or farm tractors as defined under Section 41-1a-102.

(4)  "Board" means the Board of Parks and Recreation.

(5)  "Class A side-by-side vehicle" means any motor vehicle 65 inches or less in width, having an unladen dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more non-highway tires, and designed for or capable of travel over unimproved terrain.

(6)  "Cross-country" means across natural terrain and off an existing highway, road, route, or trail.

(7)  "Dealer" means a person engaged in the business of selling off-highway vehicles at wholesale or retail.

(8)  "Division" means the Division of Parks and Recreation.

(9)  "Low pressure tire" means any pneumatic tire six inches or more in width designed for use on wheels with rim diameter of 14 inches or less and utilizing an operating pressure of 10 pounds per square inch or less as recommended by the vehicle manufacturer.

(10)  "Manufacturer" means a person engaged in the business of manufacturing off-highway vehicles.

(11)  "Motorcycle" means every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than two tires.

(12) (a)  "Motor vehicle" means every vehicle which is self-propelled.

(b)  "Motor vehicle" includes an off-highway vehicle.

(13)  "Off-highway implement of husbandry" means every all-terrain type I vehicle, motorcycle, or snowmobile that is used by the owner or the owner's agent for agricultural operations.

(14)  "Off-highway vehicle" means any snowmobile, all-terrain type I vehicle, all-terrain type II vehicle, or motorcycle.

(15)  "Operate" means to control the movement of or otherwise use an off-highway vehicle.

(16)  "Operator" means the person who is in actual physical control of an off-highway vehicle.

(17)  "Organized user group" means an off-highway vehicle organization incorporated as a nonprofit corporation in the state under Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act, for the purpose of promoting the interests of off-highway vehicle recreation.

(18)  "Owner" means a person, other than a person with a security interest, having a property interest or title to an off-highway vehicle and entitled to the use and possession of that vehicle.

(19)  "Public land" means land owned or administered by any federal or state agency or any political subdivision of the state.

(20)  "Register" means the act of assigning a registration number to an off-highway vehicle.

(21)  "Roadway" is used as defined in Section 41-6a-102.

(22)  "Snowmobile" means any motor vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice and steered and supported in whole or in part by skis, belts, cleats, runners, or low pressure tires.

(23)  "Street or highway" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way or place of whatever nature, when any part of it is open to the use of the public for vehicular travel.

(24)  "Street-legal all-terrain vehicle" or "street-legal ATV" has the same meaning as defined in Section 41-6a-102.



Amended by Chapter 125, 2012 General Session

