41-22-3.   Registration of vehicles -- Application -- Issuance of sticker and card -- Proof of property tax payment -- Records.

(1) (a)  Unless exempted under Section 41-22-9, a person may not operate or transport and an owner may not give another person permission to operate or transport any off-highway vehicle on any public land, trail, street, or highway in this state unless the off-highway vehicle is registered under this chapter for the current year.

(b)  Unless exempted under Section 41-22-9, a dealer may not sell an off-highway vehicle which can be used or transported on any public land, trail, street, or highway in this state, unless the off-highway vehicle is registered or is in the process of being registered under this chapter for the current year.

(2)  The owner of an off-highway vehicle subject to registration under this chapter shall apply to the Motor Vehicle Division for registration on forms approved by the Motor Vehicle Division.

(3)  Each application for registration of an off-highway vehicle shall be accompanied by:

(a)  evidence of ownership, a title, or a manufacturer's certificate of origin, and a bill of sale showing ownership, make, model, horsepower or displacement, and serial number;

(b)  the past registration card; or

(c)  the fee for a duplicate.

(4) (a)  Upon each annual registration, the Motor Vehicle Division shall issue a registration sticker and a registration card for each off-highway vehicle registered.

(b)  The registration sticker shall:

(i)  contain a unique number using numbers, letters, or combination of numbers and letters to identify the off-highway vehicle for which it is issued;

(ii)  be affixed to the off-highway vehicle for which it is issued in a plainly visible position as prescribed by rule of the board under Section 41-22-5.1; and

(iii)  be maintained free of foreign materials and in a condition to be clearly legible.

(c)  At all times, a registration card shall be kept with the off-highway vehicle and shall be available for inspection by a law enforcement officer.

(5) (a) Except as provided by Subsection (5)(c), an applicant for a registration card and registration sticker shall provide the Motor Vehicle Division a certificate, described under Subsection (5)(b), from the county assessor of the county in which the off-highway vehicle has situs for taxation.

(b)  The certificate required under Subsection (5)(a) shall state one of the following:

(i)  the property tax on the off-highway vehicle for the current year has been paid;

(ii)  in the county assessor's opinion, the tax is a lien on real property sufficient to secure the payment of the tax; or

(iii)  the off-highway vehicle is exempt by law from payment of property tax for the current year.

(c)  An off-highway vehicle for which an off-highway implement of husbandry sticker has been issued in accordance with Section 41-22-5.5 is exempt from the requirement under this Subsection (5).

(6) (a)  All records of the division made or kept under this section shall be classified by the Motor Vehicle Division in the same manner as motor vehicle records are classified under Section 41-1a-116.

(b)  Division records are available for inspection in the same manner as motor vehicle records under Section 41-1a-116.



Amended by Chapter 319, 2012 General Session

