41-22-5.5.   Off-highway husbandry vehicles.

(1) (a) (i)  The owner of an all-terrain type I vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain type II vehicle, or snowmobile used for agricultural purposes may apply to the Motor Vehicle Division for an off-highway implement of husbandry sticker.

(ii)  Each application under Subsection (1)(a)(i) shall be accompanied by:

(A)  evidence of ownership;

(B)  a title or a manufacturer's certificate of origin; and

(C)  a signed statement certifying that the off-highway vehicle is used for agricultural purposes.

(iii)  The owner shall receive an off-highway implement of husbandry sticker upon production of:

(A)  the documents required under this Subsection (1); and

(B)  payment of an off-highway implement of husbandry sticker fee established by the board not to exceed $10.

(b)  If the vehicle is also used for recreational purposes on public lands, trails, streets, or highways, it shall also be registered under Section 41-22-3.

(c)  The off-highway implement of husbandry sticker shall be displayed in a manner prescribed by the board and shall identify the all-terrain type I vehicle, motorcycle, or snowmobile as an off-highway implement of husbandry.

(2)  The off-highway implement of husbandry sticker is valid only for the life of the ownership of the all-terrain type I vehicle, motorcycle, or snowmobile and is not transferable.

(3)  The off-highway implement of husbandry sticker is valid for an all-terrain type I vehicle, motorcycle, or snowmobile which is being operated adjacent to a roadway:

(a)  when the all-terrain type I vehicle, motorcycle, or snowmobile is only being used to travel from one parcel of land owned or operated by the owner of the vehicle to another parcel of land owned or operated by the owner; and

(b)  when this operation is necessary for the furtherance of agricultural purposes.

(4)  If the operation of an off-highway implement of husbandry adjacent to a roadway is impractical, it may be operated on the roadway if the operator exercises due care towards conventional motor vehicle traffic.

(5)  It is unlawful to operate an off-highway implement of husbandry along, across, or within the boundaries of an interstate freeway.



Amended by Chapter 308, 2010 General Session

