41-22-33.   Fees for safety and education program -- Penalty -- Unlawful
acts.
(1) (a)  A fee set by the board in accordance with Section 63J-1-504 shall be
added to the registration fee required to register an off-highway vehicle
under Section 41-22-8 to help fund the off-highway vehicle safety and
education program.
(b)  The division may also collect a fee set by the board in accordance with
Section 63J-1-504 from each person who:
(i)  receives the training and takes the knowledge and skills test for off-
highway vehicle use; or
(ii)  takes the knowledge and skills test for off-highway vehicle use.
(c)  If the board modifies the fee under Subsection (1)(a), the modification
shall take effect on the first day of the calendar quarter after 90 days from
the day on which the board provides the State Tax Commission:
(i)  notice from the board stating that the board will modify the fee; and
(ii)  a copy of the fee modification.
(2) (a)  To help defray instructors' costs, the division may reimburse
volunteer certified off-highway vehicle safety instructors up to $6 for each
student who receives the training and takes the knowledge and skills test.
(b)  On or before the 10th day of each calendar month, volunteer off-highway
vehicle safety instructors shall report to the division all fees collected and
students trained and shall accompany the report with all money received for
off-highway vehicle training.
(c)  If a volunteer off-highway vehicle safety instructor intentionally or
negligently fails to pay the amount due, the division may assess a penalty of
20% of the amount due.  All delinquent payments shall bear interest at the
rate of 1% per month.  If the amount due is not paid because of bad faith or
fraud, the division shall assess a penalty of 100% of the total due together
with interest.
(d)  All fees collected from students shall be kept separate and apart from
private funds of the instructor and shall at all times belong to the state.
In case of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, receivership, or
bankruptcy, the state shall have a preferred claim against the instructor,
receiver, or trustee for all money owing the state for training and shall not
be stopped from asserting the claim by reason of commingling of funds or
otherwise.
(e)  A person may not:
(i)  willfully misdate an off-highway vehicle education safety certificate;
(ii)  issue an incomplete certificate; or
(iii)  issue a receipt in lieu of a certificate.
