41-22-35.   Off-highway vehicle user fee -- Decal -- Agents -- Penalty for
fraudulent issuance of decal -- Deposit and use of fee revenue.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), any nonresident owning an
off-highway vehicle who operates or gives another person permission to operate
the off-highway vehicle on any public land, trail, street, or highway in this
state shall:
(i)  apply for an off-highway vehicle decal issued exclusively for an off-
highway vehicle owned by a nonresident of the state;
(ii)  pay an annual off-highway vehicle user fee; and
(iii)  provide evidence that:
(A)  the person is a nonresident; and
(B)  the person is the owner of the off-highway vehicle.
(b)  The provisions of Subsection (1)(a) do not apply to an off-highway
vehicle if the off-highway vehicle is:
(i)  registered in another state that offers reciprocal operating privileges
to Utah residents under rules made by the board; or
(ii)  used exclusively for the purposes of a scheduled competitive event
sponsored by a public or private entity or another event sponsored by a
governmental entity under rules made by the board.
(2)  The off-highway vehicle user fee is $30.
(3)  Upon compliance with the provisions of Subsection (1)(a), the nonresident
shall:
(a)  receive a nonresident off-highway vehicle user decal indicating
compliance with the provisions of Subsection (1)(a); and
(b)  display the decal on the off-highway vehicle in accordance with rules
made by the board.
(4)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the board shall make rules establishing:
(a)  procedures for:
(i)  the payment of off-highway vehicle user fees; and
(ii)  the display of a decal on an off-highway vehicle as required under
Subsection (3)(b);
(b)  acceptable evidence indicating compliance with Subsection (1);
(c)  eligibility requirements for reciprocal operating privileges for
nonresident users; and
(d)  eligibility for scheduled competitive events or other events under
Subsection (1)(b)(ii).
(5) (a)  An off-highway vehicle user decal may be issued and the off-highway
vehicle user fee may be collected by the division or agents of the division.
(b)  An agent shall retain 10% of all off-highway vehicle user fees collected.
(c)  The division may require agents to obtain a bond in a reasonable amount.
(d)  On or before the tenth day of each month, each agent shall:
(i)  report all sales to the division; and
(ii)  submit all off-highway vehicle user fees collected less the remuneration
provided in Subsection (5)(b).
(e) (i)  If an agent fails to pay the amount due, the division may assess a
penalty of 20% of the amount due.
(ii)  Delinquent payments shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month.
(iii)  If the amount due is not paid because of bad faith or fraud, the
division shall assess a penalty of 100% of the total amount due together with
interest.
(f)  All fees collected by an agent, except the remuneration provided in
Subsection (5)(b), shall:
(i)  be kept separate and apart from the private funds of the agent; and
(ii)  belong to the state.
(g)  An agent may not issue an off-highway vehicle user decal to any person
unless the person furnishes evidence of compliance with the provisions of
Subsection (1)(a).
(h)  A violation of any provision of this Subsection (5) is a class B
misdemeanor and may be cause for revocation of the agent authorization.
(6)  Revenue generated by off-highway vehicle user fees shall be deposited in
the Off-highway Vehicle Account created in Section 41-22-19.
