10-3-703.7.   Administrative proceedings -- Procedures -- Appeals.
(1)  As used in this section, "administrative proceeding" means an
adjudicative hearing for a violation of a civil municipal ordinance.
(2)  An administrative proceeding:
(a)  shall be a public meeting with business transacted during regularly
scheduled hours;
(b)  shall be conducted by an administrative law judge;
(c)  shall provide due process for the parties;
(d)  shall be recorded or otherwise documented so that a true and correct
transcript may be made of its proceedings; and
(e)  may not be held for a civil violation that occurs in conjunction with
another criminal violation as part of a single criminal episode that will be
prosecuted in a criminal proceeding.
(3)  An administrative law judge:
(a)  shall be appointed by the municipality to conduct administrative
proceedings;
(b)  may be an employee of the municipality; and
(c)  shall make a final administrative determination for each administrative
proceeding.
(4) (a)  A final administrative determination under this section may be an
order for the municipality to abate the violation.
(b)  If a final administrative determination under this section is for a
violation, the final administrative determination may be appealed by a party
in accordance with Subsection (5).
(5) (a) (i)  Any person adversely affected by an administrative proceeding may
petition a district court for review of the administrative determination.
(ii)  In the petition, the petitioner may only allege that the administrative
proceeding's decision was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.
(iii)  The petition is barred unless it is filed within 30 days after the
administrative determination is final.
(b) (i)  The administrative proceeding shall transmit to the reviewing
district court the record of its proceedings, including its findings, orders,
and a true and correct transcript of its proceedings.
(ii)  The district court may not accept or consider any evidence that is not
included in the administrative proceeding's record unless the evidence was
offered to the administrative proceeding and the district court determines
that the evidence was improperly excluded by the administrative proceeding.
