10-3-818.   Salaries in municipalities.

(1)  The elective and statutory officers of municipalities shall receive such compensation for their services as the governing body may fix by ordinance adopting compensation or compensation schedules enacted after public hearing.

(2)  Upon its own motion the governing body may review or consider the compensation of any officer or officers of the municipality or a salary schedule applicable to any officer or officers of the city for the purpose of determining whether or not it should be adopted, changed, or amended.  In the event that the governing body decides that the compensation or compensation schedules should be adopted, changed, or amended, it shall set a time and place for a public hearing at which all interested persons shall be given an opportunity to be heard.

(3) (a)  Notice of the time, place, and purpose of the meeting shall be published at least seven days before the meeting by publication:

(i)  at least once in a newspaper published in the county within which the municipality is situated and generally circulated in the municipality; and

(ii) on the Utah Public Notice Website created in Section 63F-1-701.

(b)  If there is not a newspaper as described in Subsection (3)(a)(i), then notice shall be given by posting this notice in three public places in the municipality.

(4)  After the conclusion of the public hearing, the governing body may enact an ordinance fixing, changing, or amending the compensation of any elective or appointive officer of the municipality or adopting a compensation schedule applicable to any officer or officers.

(5)  Any ordinance enacted before Laws of Utah 1977, Chapter 48, by a municipality establishing a salary or compensation schedule for its elective or appointive officers and any salary fixed prior to Laws of Utah 1977, Chapter 48, shall remain effective until the municipality has enacted an ordinance pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.

(6)  The compensation of all municipal officers shall be paid at least monthly out of the municipal treasury provided that municipalities having 1,000 or fewer population may by ordinance provide for the payment of its statutory officers less frequently.  None of the provisions of this chapter shall be considered as limiting or restricting the authority to any municipality that has adopted or does adopt a charter pursuant to Utah Constitution, Article XI, Section 5, to determine the salaries of its elective and appointive officers or employees.



Amended by Chapter 90, 2010 General Session

