10-3-1303.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Appointed officer" means any person appointed to any statutory office or
position or any other person appointed to any position of employment with a
city or with a community development and renewal agency under Title 17C,
Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Community Development and Renewal
Agencies Act.  Appointed officers include, but are not limited to, persons
serving on special, regular, or full-time committees, agencies, or boards
whether or not such persons are compensated for their services.  The use of
the word "officer" in this part is not intended to make appointed persons or
employees "officers" of the municipality.
(2)  "Assist" means to act, or offer or agree to act, in such a way as to
help, represent, aid, advise, furnish information to, or otherwise provide
assistance to a person or business entity, believing that such action is of
help, aid, advice, or assistance to such person or business entity and with
the intent to assist such person or business entity.
(3)  "Business entity" means a sole proprietorship, partnership, association,
joint venture, corporation, firm, trust, foundation, or other organization or
entity used in carrying on a business.
(4)  "Compensation" means anything of economic value, however designated,
which is paid, loaned, granted, given, donated, or transferred to any person
or business entity by anyone other than the governmental employer for or in
consideration of personal services, materials, property, or any other thing
whatsoever.
(5)  "Elected officer" means any person elected or appointed to the office of
mayor, commissioner, or council member.
(6)  "Improper disclosure" means disclosure of private, controlled, or
protected information to any person who does not have both the right and the
need to receive the information.
(7)  "Municipal employee" means a person who is not an elected or appointed
officer who is employed on a full or part-time basis by a municipality or by a
community development and renewal agency under Title 17C, Limited Purpose
Local Government Entities - Community Development and Renewal Agencies Act.
(8)  "Private, controlled, or protected information" means information
classified as private,  controlled, or protected under Title 63G, Chapter 2,
Government Records Access and Management Act or other applicable provision of
law.
(9)  "Substantial interest" means the ownership, either legally or equitably,
by an individual, the individual's spouse, or the individual's minor children,
of at least 10% of the outstanding shares of a corporation or 10% interest in
any other business entity.
