70D-2-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), "broker" means a person who
in the regular course of business assists a person in obtaining a mortgage
loan for a fee or other consideration paid directly or indirectly.
(b)  "Broker" does not include a person solely because of the person's:
(i)  real estate brokerage activities; or
(ii)  activities as an attorney licensed to practice law in this state who, in
the course of the attorney's practice as an attorney, assists a person in
obtaining a mortgage loan.
(2)  "Business as a lender, broker, or servicer" means a person who engages in
an act for compensation or in the expectation of compensation that makes the
person a lender, broker, or servicer.
(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(b), "lender" means a person who
in the regular course of business originates a loan secured by a mortgage.
(b)  "Lender" does not include a person who:
(i)  as a seller only receives one or more mortgages as security for a
purchase money obligation; or
(ii)  only receives a mortgage as security for an obligation:
(A)  payable on an installment or deferred payment basis; and
(B)  arising out of materials furnished or services rendered in the
improvement of real property.
(4)  "Manufactured home" means a transportable factory built housing unit
that:
(a)  is constructed:
(i)  on or after June 15, 1976, according to the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974; and
(ii)  in one or more sections, which:
(A)  in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length; or
(B)  when erected on site, is 400 or more square feet;
(b)  is built on a permanent chassis;
(c)  is designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities; and
(d)  includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems.
(5)  "Mobile home" means a transportable factory built housing unit built
before June 15, 1976, in accordance with a state mobile home code that existed
before the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act
of 1974.
(6)  "Permanently affixed" means anchored to, and supported by, a permanent
foundation or installed in accordance with the manufactured housing
installation standard code referred to in Section 58-56-4.
(7)  "Servicer" means a person who in the regular course of business assumes
responsibility for servicing and accepting payments for a mortgage loan.
