36-2-2.   Salaries and expenses of members -- Compensation of in-session
employees.
(1) (a) (i)  The salary of members of the Legislature is $100 per day for each
calendar day for annual general sessions through the year 2000.
(ii)  Unless rejected or lowered as provided in Section 36-2-3, the salary of
members of the Legislature beginning in the year 2001 and each odd-numbered
year thereafter shall be at the amount recommended by the Legislative
Compensation Commission in its report issued in the previous even-numbered
year.
(b) (i)  Members of the Legislature shall also receive $100 per day for each
day the legislator attends veto-override and special sessions and other
authorized legislative meetings through the year 2000.
(ii)  Unless rejected or lowered as provided in Section 36-2-3, the salary of
members of the Legislature for attendance at a veto-override, special session,
and other authorized legislative meetings beginning in the year 2001 and each
odd-numbered year thereafter shall be at the amount recommended by the
Legislative Compensation Commission in its report issued in the previous even-
numbered year.
(2) (a) (i)  The president of the Senate and the speaker of the House of
Representatives shall receive an additional $1,000 per year through the year
2000.
(ii)  Unless rejected or lowered as provided in Section 36-2-3, the salary of
the president of the Senate and the speaker of the House of Representatives
beginning in the year 2001 and each odd-numbered year thereafter shall be at
the amount recommended by the Legislative Compensation Commission in its
report issued in the previous even-numbered year.
(b) (i)  The majority and minority leaders of each house shall receive an
additional $500 per year through the year 2000.
(ii)  The salary of the majority and minority leadership of each house
beginning in the year 2001 and each odd-numbered year thereafter shall be at
the amount recommended by the Legislative Compensation Commission in its
report issued in the previous even-numbered year.
(3) (a)  The Legislature shall establish, by joint rule of the Legislature,
the expenses of its members.
(b)  Rules governing expenses shall be based upon:
(i)  payment of necessary expenses for attendance during legislative sessions;
(ii)  a mileage allowance; and
(iii)  reimbursement for other expenses involved in the performance of
legislative duties.
(4) (a)  The compensation of in-session employees of the Legislature shall be
fixed by joint resolution at each session of the Legislature.
(b)  For necessary work done by the employees of the Legislature after the
adjournment of the session, the labor and services rendered shall be approved
and attested by the presiding officer of the house employing that work.
