36-2-4.   Legislative Compensation Commission created -- Governor's considerations in appointments -- Organization and expenses.

(1)  There is created a state Legislative Compensation Commission composed of seven members appointed by the governor, not more than four of whom shall be from the same political party.

(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), the members shall be appointed for four-year terms.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately half of the board is appointed every two years.

(c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term in the same manner as the vacated member was chosen.

(3)  In appointing members of the commission, the governor shall give consideration to achieving representation from the major geographic areas of the state, and representation from a broad cross section of occupational, professional, employee, and management interests.

(4)  The commission shall select a chair.  Four members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. The commission shall not make any final determination without the concurrence of a majority of its members appointed and serving on the commission being present.

(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(6) (a)  The commission shall be a citizen commission and no member or employee of the legislative, judicial, or executive branch is eligible for appointment to the commission.

(b)  The director of the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget:

(i)  shall provide staff to the commission; and

(ii)  is responsible for administration, budgeting, procurement, and related management functions for the commission.

