63B-2-301.   Legislative intent -- Additional projects.
It is the intent of the Legislature that:
(1)  The Department of Employment Security use money in the special
administrative fund to plan, design, and construct a Davis County facility
under the supervision of the director of the Division of Facilities
Construction and Management unless supervisory authority is delegated by him
as authorized by Section 63A-5-206.
(2)  The University of Utah may use donated funds to plan, design, and
construct the Nora Eccles Harrison addition under the supervision of the
director of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management unless
supervisory authority is delegated by him as authorized by Section 63A-5-206.
(3)  The University of Utah may use hospital funds to plan, design, and
construct the West Patient Services Building under the supervision of the
director of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management unless
supervisory authority is delegated by him as authorized by Section 63A-5-206.
(4)  The University of Utah may use federal funds to plan, design, and
construct the Computational Science Building under the supervision of the
director of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management unless
supervisory authority is delegated by him as authorized by Section 63A-5-206.
(5)  The Board of Regents may issue revenue bonds to provide:
(a)  $6,700,000 to plan, design, and construct single student housing at Utah
State University under the supervision of the director of the Division of
Facilities Construction and Management unless supervisory authority is
delegated by him as authorized by Section 63A-5-206; and
(b)  additional money necessary to:
(i)  pay costs incident to the issuance and sale of the bonds;
(ii)  pay interest on the bonds that accrues during construction and
acquisition of the project and for up to one year after construction is
completed; and
(iii)  fund any reserve requirements for the bonds.
(6)  Utah State University may use federal funds to plan, design, and
construct the Natural Resources Lab addition under the supervision of the
director of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management unless
supervisory authority is delegated by him as authorized by Section 63A-5-206.
(7)  Utah State University may use funds derived from property sales to plan,
design, and construct emergency relocation facilities for the Farmington
Botanical Gardens under the supervision of the director of the Division of
Facilities Construction and Management unless supervisory authority is
delegated by him as authorized by Section 63A-5-206.
(8)  Utah State University may use institutional funds to plan, design, and
construct an institutional residence for the president under the supervision
of the director of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management
unless supervisory authority is delegated by him as authorized by Section
63A-5-206.
(9)  Weber State University may use discretionary funds to construct a remodel
and expansion of the stores building and mail service facilities under the
supervision of the director of the Division of Facilities Construction and
Management unless supervisory authority is delegated by him as authorized by
Section 63A-5-206.
(10)  Weber State University may use fees and auxiliary revenue to plan,
design, and construct a remodel and expansion of the Shepherd Student Union
Building under the supervision of the director of the Division of Facilities
Construction and Management unless supervisory authority is delegated by him
as authorized by Section 63A-5-206.
(11)  Southern Utah University may use donated funds to plan, design, and
construct an alumni house under the supervision of the director of the
Division of Facilities Construction and Management unless supervisory
authority is delegated by him as authorized by Section 63A-5-206.
(12)  The College of Eastern Utah may use auxiliary revenues and other fees
to:
(a)  make lease or other payments;
(b)  redeem revenue bonds or repay loans issued on behalf of the college; and
(c)  plan, design, and construct a 200 person residence hall under the
supervision of the director of the Division of Facilities Construction and
Management unless supervisory authority is delegated by him as authorized by
Section 63A-5-206.
(13)  The Sevier Valley Applied Technology Center may use private and
Community Impact Board funds, if approved, to plan, design, and construct a
performing arts/multi-use facility under the supervision of the director of
the Division of Facilities Construction and Management unless supervisory
authority is delegated by him as authorized by Section 63A-5-206.
(14)  Ogden City and Weber County may have offices and related space for their
attorneys included in the Ogden Courts building if the city and county are
able to provide upfront funding to cover all costs associated with the design
and construction of that space.  In addition, the city and county shall cover
their proportionate share of all operations and maintenance costs of their
facility, including future major repairs to the building.
(15)  If the Legislature authorizes the Division of Facilities Construction
and Management to enter into a lease purchase agreement for the Department of
Human Services facility at 1385 South State Street in Salt Lake City or for
the State Board of Education facility and adjacent space in Salt Lake City, or
for both of those facilities, the State Building Ownership Authority, at the
reasonable rates and amounts it may determine, and with technical assistance
from the state treasurer, the director of the Division of Finance, and the
director of the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget, may seek out the
most cost effective lease purchase plans available to the state and may,
pursuant to Title 63B, Chapter 1, Part 3, State Building Ownership Authority
Act, certificate out interests in, or obligations of the authority pertaining
to:
(a)  the lease purchase obligation; or
(b)  lease rental payments under the lease purchase obligation.
(16)  Salt Lake Community College may use donated funds to plan, design, and
construct an amphitheater under the supervision of the director of the
Division of Facilities Construction and Management unless supervisory
authority is delegated by him as authorized by Section 63A-5-206.
(17)  For the Tax Commission building, that:
(a)  All costs associated with the construction and furnishing of the Tax
Commission building that are incurred before the issuance of the 1993 general
obligation bonds be reimbursed by bond proceeds.
(b)  The maximum amount of cost that may be reimbursed from the 1993 general
obligation bond proceeds for the Tax Commission building and furnishings may
not exceed $14,230,000.
(c)  This intent statement for Subsection (17) constitutes a declaration of
official intent under Section 1.103-18 of the U.S. Treasury Regulations.
