76-3-202.   Paroled persons -- Termination or discharge from sentence --
Time served on parole -- Discretion of Board of Pardons and Parole.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), every person committed to
the state prison to serve an indeterminate term and later released on parole
shall, upon completion of three years on parole outside of confinement and
without violation, be terminated from the person's sentence unless the parole
is earlier terminated by the Board of Pardons and Parole.
(b)  Every person committed to the state prison to serve an indeterminate term
and later released on parole on or after July 1, 2008, and who was convicted
of any felony offense under Title 76, Chapter 5, Offenses Against the Person,
or any attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of these felony
offenses, shall complete a term of parole that extends through the expiration
of the person's maximum sentence, unless the parole is earlier terminated by
the Board of Pardons and Parole.
(2)  Every person convicted of a second degree felony for violating Section
76-5-404, forcible sexual abuse, or 76-5-404.1, sexual abuse of a child and
aggravated sexual abuse of a child, or attempting, conspiring, or soliciting
the commission of a violation of any of those sections, and who is paroled
before July 1, 2008, shall, upon completion of ten years parole outside of
confinement and without violation, shall be terminated from the sentence
unless the person is earlier terminated by the Board of Pardons and Parole.
(3) (a)  Every person convicted of a first degree felony for committing any
offense listed in Subsection (3)(b), or attempting, conspiring, or soliciting
the commission of a violation of any of those sections, shall complete a term
of lifetime parole outside of confinement and without violation unless the
person is earlier terminated by the Board of Pardons and Parole.
(b)  The offenses referred to in Subsection (3)(a) are:
(i)  Section 76-5-301.1, child kidnapping;
(ii)  Subsection 76-5-302(1)(b)(vi), aggravated kidnapping involving a sexual
offense;
(iii)  Section 76-5-402, rape;
(iv)  Section 76-5-402.1, rape of a child;
(v)  Section 76-5-402.2, object rape;
(vi)  Section 76-5-402.3, object rape of a child;
(vii)  Subsection 76-5-403(2), forcible sodomy;
(viii)  Section 76-5-403.1, sodomy on a child;
(ix)  Section 76-5-404.1, sexual abuse of a child and aggravated sexual abuse
of a child; or
(x)  Section 76-5-405, aggravated sexual assault.
(4)  Any person who violates the terms of parole, while serving parole, for
any offense under Subsection (1), (2), or (3), shall at the discretion of the
Board of Pardons and Parole be recommitted to prison to serve the portion of
the balance of the term as determined by the Board of Pardons and Parole, but
not to exceed the maximum term.
(5)  In order for a parolee convicted on or after May 5, 1997, to be eligible
for early termination from parole, the parolee must provide to the Board of
Pardons and Parole:
(a)  evidence that the parolee has completed high school classwork and has
obtained a high school graduation diploma, a GED certificate, or a vocational
certificate; or
(b)  documentation of the inability to obtain one of the items listed in
Subsection (5)(a) because of:
(i)  a diagnosed learning disability; or
(ii)  other justified cause.
(6)  Any person paroled following a former parole revocation may not be
discharged from the person's sentence until:
(a)  the person has served the applicable period of parole under this section
outside of confinement and without violation;
(b)  the person's maximum sentence has expired; or
(c)  the Board of Pardons and Parole orders the person to be discharged from
the sentence.
(7) (a)  All time served on parole, outside of confinement and without
violation constitutes service of the total sentence but does not preclude the
requirement of serving the applicable period of parole under this section,
outside of confinement and without violation.
(b)  Any time a person spends outside of confinement after commission of a
parole violation does not constitute service of the total sentence unless the
person is exonerated at a parole revocation hearing.
(c) (i)  Any time a person spends in confinement awaiting a hearing before the
Board of Pardons and Parole or a decision by the board concerning revocation
of parole constitutes service of the sentence.
(ii)  In the case of exoneration by the board, the time spent is included in
computing the total parole term.
(8)  When any parolee without authority from the Board of Pardons and Parole
absents himself from the state or avoids or evades parole supervision, the
period of absence, avoidance, or evasion tolls the parole period.
(9) (a)  While on parole, time spent in confinement outside the state may not
be credited toward the service of any Utah sentence.
(b)  Time in confinement outside the state or in the custody of any tribal
authority or the United States government for a conviction obtained in another
jurisdiction tolls the expiration of the Utah sentence.
(10)  This section does not preclude the Board of Pardons and Parole from
paroling or discharging an inmate at any time within the discretion of the
Board of Pardons and Parole unless otherwise specifically provided by law.
(11)  A parolee sentenced to lifetime parole may petition the Board of Pardons
and Parole for termination of lifetime parole.
