76-3-401.   Concurrent or consecutive sentences -- Limitations -- Definition.

(1)  A court shall determine, if a defendant has been adjudged guilty of more than one felony offense, whether to impose concurrent or consecutive sentences for the offenses.  The court shall state on the record and shall indicate in the order of judgment and commitment:

(a)  if the sentences imposed are to run concurrently or consecutively to each other; and

(b)  if the sentences before the court are to run concurrently or consecutively with any other sentences the defendant is already serving.

(2) In determining whether state offenses are to run concurrently or consecutively, the court shall consider the gravity and circumstances of the offenses, the number of victims, and the history, character, and rehabilitative needs of the defendant.

(3)  The court shall order that sentences for state offenses run consecutively if the later offense is committed while the defendant is imprisoned or on parole, unless the court finds and states on the record that consecutive sentencing would be inappropriate.

(4)  If a written order of commitment does not clearly state whether the sentences are to run consecutively or concurrently, the Board of Pardons and Parole shall request clarification from the court.  Upon receipt of the request, the court shall enter a clarified order of commitment stating whether the sentences are to run consecutively or concurrently.

(5)  A court may impose consecutive sentences for offenses arising out of a single criminal episode as defined in Section 76-1-401.

(6) (a)  If a court imposes consecutive sentences, the aggregate maximum of all sentences imposed may not exceed 30 years imprisonment, except as provided under Subsection (6)(b).

(b)  The limitation under Subsection (6)(a) does not apply if:

(i)  an offense for which the defendant is sentenced authorizes the death penalty or a maximum sentence of life imprisonment; or

(ii)  the defendant is convicted of an additional offense based on conduct which occurs after his initial sentence or sentences are imposed.

(7)  The limitation in Subsection (6)(a) applies if a defendant:

(a)  is sentenced at the same time for more than one offense;

(b)  is sentenced at different times for one or more offenses, all of which were committed prior to imposition of the defendant's initial sentence; or

(c)  has already been sentenced by a court of this state other than the present sentencing court or by a court of another state or federal jurisdiction, and the conduct giving rise to the present offense did not occur after his initial sentencing by any other court.

(8) When the limitation of Subsection (6)(a) applies, determining the effect of consecutive sentences and the manner in which they shall be served, the Board of Pardons and Parole shall treat the defendant as though he has been committed for a single term that consists of the aggregate of the validly imposed prison terms as follows:

(a)  if the aggregate maximum term exceeds the 30-year limitation, the maximum sentence is considered to be 30 years; and

(b)  when indeterminate sentences run consecutively, the minimum term, if any, constitutes the aggregate of the validly imposed minimum terms.

(9)  When a sentence is imposed or sentences are imposed to run concurrently with the other or with a sentence presently being served, the term that provides the longer remaining imprisonment constitutes the time to be served.

(10)  This section may not be construed to restrict the number or length of individual consecutive sentences that may be imposed or to affect the validity of any sentence so imposed, but only to limit the length of sentences actually served under the commitments.

(11)  This section may not be construed to limit the authority of a court to impose consecutive sentences in misdemeanor cases.

(12)  As used in this section, "imprisoned" means sentenced and committed to a secure correctional facility as defined in Section 64-13-1, the sentence has not been terminated or voided, and the person is not on parole, regardless of where the person is located.



Amended by Chapter 129, 2002 General Session

