57-19-17.   Administrative procedures.
(1)  The director may summarily deny an application for registration under any
of the provisions of Section 57-19-13 or 57-19-16.  If a registration is
denied, the applicant may, within 10 days after receipt of notice of the
denial, request a hearing before an administrative law judge.  The director
shall schedule the hearing within 30 days after receipt of the applicant's
request and give notice of the hearing in writing to the applicant, specifying
the reasons for denial of the registration.  If, as a result of the hearing,
it is determined that the applicant is qualified to be registered, the
registration shall be issued.
(2)  Before an existing registration is suspended or revoked, or a fine
imposed, the director shall schedule a hearing before an administrative law
judge and give notice in writing to the affected person as prescribed in Title
13, Chapter 1, and the rules of procedure for hearings before the Department
of Commerce.  If, as a result of the hearing, the administrative law judge
finds that there has been a violation of this chapter, the registration shall
be suspended or revoked, or a fine imposed, by written order of the director
in concurrence with the executive director.
(3)  The developer or salesperson has the right to appear at the hearing, in
person or by counsel, to be heard and to examine witnesses appearing in
connection with the complaint.  At the hearing, all witnesses shall be sworn
by the administrative law judge, and stenographic notes or a tape recording of
the proceeding shall be taken and filed as a part of the record in the case.
Any party to the proceeding shall be furnished a copy of the stenographic
notes or tape recording at a reasonable cost.  The administrative law judge
shall render a decision within 60 days after the completion of the hearing.
The executive director and the director shall concurrently make the final
decision and promptly notify the parties to the proceedings, in writing, of
the ruling, order, or decision.
(4)  The developer or salesperson, or any person aggrieved, may appeal any
adverse ruling, order, or decision of the executive director and the director
to the district court for the county in which the hearing was held, within 30
days from the date of service of notice of the ruling, order, or decision upon
him.  At the time of filing the notice of appeal, the appellant shall file
with the notice a bond for costs on appeal in the amount of $200, conditioned
to secure the payment of costs if the appeal is dismissed or the judgment
affirmed.
