26A-1-115.   Apportionment of costs -- Contracts to provide services --
Percentage match of state funds -- Audit.
(1) (a)  The cost of establishing and maintaining a multicounty local health
department may be apportioned among the participating counties on the basis of
population in proportion to the total population of all counties within the
boundaries of the local health department, or upon other bases agreeable to
the participating counties.
(b)  Costs of establishing and maintaining a county health department shall be
a charge of the county creating the local health department.
(c)  Money available from fees, contracts, surpluses, grants, and donations
may also be used to establish and maintain local health departments.
(d)  As used in this Subsection (1), "population" means population estimates
prepared by the Utah Population Estimates Committee.
(2)  The cost of providing, equipping, and maintaining suitable offices and
facilities for a local health department is the responsibility of
participating governing bodies.
(3)  Local health departments that comply with all department rules and secure
advance approval of proposed service boundaries from the department may by
contract receive funds  under Section 26A-1-116 from the department to provide
specified public health services.
(4)  Contract funds distributed under Subsection (3) shall be in accordance
with Section 26A-1-116 and policies and procedures adopted by the department.
(5)  Department rules shall  require that contract funds be used for public
health services and not replace other funds used for local public health
services.
(6)  All state funds distributed by contract from the department to local
health departments for public health services shall be matched by those local
health departments at a percentage determined by the department in
consultation with local health departments.  Counties shall have no legal
obligation to match state funds at percentages in excess of those established
by the department and shall suffer no penalty or reduction in state funding
for failing to exceed the required funding match.
(7) (a)  Each local health department shall cause an annual financial and
compliance audit to be made of its operations by a certified public
accountant.  The audit may be conducted as part of an annual county government
audit of the county where the local health department headquarters are
located.
(b)  The local health department shall provide a copy of the audit report to
the department and the local governing bodies of counties participating in the
local health department.
