26A-1-126.   Medical reserve corps.

(1)  In addition to the duties listed in Section 26A-1-114, a local health department may establish a medical reserve corps in accordance with this section.

(2)  The purpose of a medical reserve corps is to enable a local health authority to respond with appropriate health care professionals to a national, state, or local emergency, a public health emergency as defined in Section 26-23b-102, or a declaration by the president of the United States or other federal official requesting public health related activities.

(3)  When an emergency has been declared in accordance with Subsection (2), a local health department may activate a medical reserve corps for the duration of the emergency.

(4)  For purposes of this section, a medical reserve corps may include persons who:

(a)  are licensed under Title 58, Occupations and Professions, and who are operating within the scope of their practice;

(b)  are exempt from licensure, or operating under modified scope of practice provisions in accordance with Subsections 58-1-307(4) and (5); and

(c)  within the 10 years preceding the declared emergency, held a valid license, in good standing in Utah, for one of the occupations described in Subsection 58-13-2(1), but the license is not currently active.

(5) (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsections 58-1-307(4)(a) and (5)(b) the local health department may authorize a person described in Subsection (4) to operate in a modified scope of practice as necessary to respond to the declared emergency.

(b)  A person operating as a member of an activated medical reserve corps under this section:

(i) shall be volunteering for and supervised by the local health department;

(ii) shall comply with the provisions of this section;

(iii)  is exempt from the licensing laws of Title 58, Occupations and Professions; and

(iv) shall carry a certificate issued by the local health department which designates the individual as a member of the medical reserve corps during the duration of the emergency.

(6)  The local department of health may access the Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing database for the purpose of determining if a person's current or expired license to practice in the state was in good standing.

(7)  The local department of health shall maintain a registry of persons who are members of a medical reserve corps.  The registry of the medical reserve corps shall be made available to the public and to the Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing.



Amended by Chapter 297, 2011 General Session

