32B-5-301.   General operational requirements.

(1) (a)  A retail licensee and staff of a retail licensee shall comply with this title and the rules of the commission, including the relevant part under Chapter 6, Specific Retail License Act, for the specific type of retail license.

(b)  Failure to comply as provided in Subsection (1)(a) may result in disciplinary action in accordance with Chapter 3, Disciplinary Actions and Enforcement Act, against:

(i)  a retail licensee;

(ii)  individual staff of a retail licensee; or

(iii)  both a retail licensee and staff of the retail licensee.

(2) (a)  If there is a conflict between this part and the relevant part under Chapter 6, Specific Retail License Act, for the specific type of retail license, the relevant part under Chapter 6 governs.

(b)  Notwithstanding that this part refers to "liquor" or an "alcoholic product," a retail licensee may only sell, offer for sale, furnish, or allow the consumption of an alcoholic product specifically authorized by the relevant part under Chapter 6, Specific Retail License Act.

(c)  Notwithstanding that this part or the relevant part under Chapter 6, Specific Retail License Act, refers to "retail licensee," staff of the retail licensee is subject to the same requirement or prohibition.

(3) (a)  A retail licensee shall display in a prominent place in the licensed premises the retail license that is issued by the department.

(b)  A retail licensee shall display in a prominent place a sign in large letters that consists of text in the following order:

(i)  a header that reads: "WARNING";

(ii)  a warning statement that reads: "Drinking alcoholic beverages during pregnancy can cause birth defects and permanent brain damage for the child.";

(iii)  a statement in smaller font that reads: "Call the Utah Department of Health at [insert most current toll-free number] with questions or for more information.";

(iv)  a header that reads: "WARNING"; and

(v)  a warning statement that reads: "Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs is a serious crime that is prosecuted aggressively in Utah."

(c) (i)  The text described in Subsections (3)(b)(i) through (iii) shall be in a different font style than the text described in Subsections (3)(b)(iv) and (v).

(ii)  The warning statements in the sign described in Subsection (3)(b) shall be in the same font size.

(d)  The Department of Health shall work with the commission and department to facilitate consistency in the format of a sign required under this section.

(4)  A retail licensee may not on the licensed premises:

(a)  engage in or permit any form of gambling, as defined and proscribed in Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling;

(b)  have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed by Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling; or

(c)  engage in or permit a contest, game, gaming scheme, or gaming device that requires the risking of something of value for a return or for an outcome when the return or outcome is based upon an element of chance, excluding the playing of an amusement device that confers only an immediate and unrecorded right of replay not exchangeable for value.

(5)  A retail licensee may not knowingly allow a person on the licensed premises to, in violation of Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or Chapter 37a, Utah Drug Paraphernalia Act:

(a)  sell, distribute, possess, or use a controlled substance, as defined in Section 58-37-2; or

(b)  use, deliver, or possess with the intent to deliver drug paraphernalia, as defined in Section 58-37a-3.

(6)  Upon the presentation of credentials, at any time during which a retail licensee is open for the transaction of business, the retail licensee shall immediately:

(a)  admit a commissioner, authorized department employee, or law enforcement officer to the retail licensee's premises; and

(b)  permit, without hindrance or delay, the person described in Subsection (6)(a) to inspect completely:

(i)  the entire premises of the retail licensee; and

(ii)  the records of the retail licensee.

(7)  An individual may not consume an alcoholic product on the licensed premises of a retail licensee on any day during the period:

(a)  beginning one hour after the time of day that the period during which a retail licensee may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish an alcoholic product on the licensed premises begins; and

(b)  ending at the time specified in the relevant part under Chapter 6, Specific Retail License Act, for the type of retail license when the retail licensee may first sell, offer for sale, or furnish an alcoholic product on the licensed premises on that day.

