32B-5-304.   Portions in which alcoholic product may be sold.

(1)  A retail licensee may sell, offer for sale, or furnish a primary spirituous liquor only in a quantity that does not exceed 1.5 ounces per beverage dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing system approved by the department in accordance with commission rules adopted under this title, except that:

(a)  spirituous liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing system if used as a secondary flavoring ingredient in a beverage subject to the following requirements:

(i)  the secondary ingredient may be dispensed only in conjunction with the purchase of a primary spirituous liquor;

(ii)  the secondary ingredient may not be the only spirituous liquor in the beverage;

(iii)  the retail licensee shall designate a location where flavorings are stored on the floor plan submitted to the department; and

(iv)  a flavoring container shall be plainly and conspicuously labeled "flavorings";

(b)  spirituous liquor need not be dispensed through a calibrated metered dispensing system if used:

(i)  as a flavoring on a dessert; and

(ii)  in the preparation of a flaming food dish, drink, or dessert; and

(c)  a patron may have no more than 2.5 ounces of spirituous liquor at a time.

(2) (a) (i)  A retail licensee may sell, offer for sale, or furnish wine by the glass or in an individual portion that does not exceed 5 ounces per glass or individual portion.

(ii)  A retail licensee may sell, offer for sale, or furnish an individual portion of wine to a patron in more than one glass if the total amount of wine does not exceed 5 ounces.

(b) (i)  A retail licensee may sell, offer for sale, or furnish wine in a container not exceeding 1.5 liters at a price fixed by the commission to a table of four or more persons.

(ii)  A retail licensee may sell, offer for sale, or furnish wine in a container not to exceed 750 milliliters at a price fixed by the commission to a table of less than four persons.

(3)  A retail licensee may sell, offer for sale, or furnish heavy beer in an original container at a price fixed by the commission, except that the original container may not exceed one liter.

(4)  A retail licensee may sell, offer for sale, or furnish a flavored malt beverage in an original container at a price fixed by the commission, except that the original container may not exceed one liter.

(5) (a)  Subject to Subsection (5)(b), a retail licensee may sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer for on-premise consumption:

(i)  in an open original container; and

(ii)  in a container on draft.

(b)  A retail licensee may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer under Subsection (5)(a):

(i)  in a size of container that exceeds two liters; or

(ii)  to an individual patron in a size of container that exceeds one liter.

