73-5a-502.   Legislative findings -- Immunity from suit -- State engineer to
set minimum standards for existing high hazard dams -- Exceptions --
Investigations and plans for compliance with minimum standards.
(1)  The Legislature finds that:
(a)  it is in the interest of the people of the state to improve the safety of
existing dams;
(b)  mutual irrigation companies and water users associations cannot afford to
bring dams into conformance with the state's current minimum safety standards
without financial assistance from the state;
(c)  due to limited financial, physical, and human resources, it is necessary
to establish priorities for the upgrade of dams; and
(d)  the state and its officers and employees are immune from suit for any
injury or damage resulting from the exercise or performance or the failure to
exercise or perform any function pursuant to this chapter.
(2)  The state engineer shall establish minimum standards for existing high
hazard dams by rule.  The standards for existing high hazard dams may differ
from the design criteria established for new construction.
(3)  No seismic standards shall be established for existing high hazard dams
within the flood control use classification.
(4) (a)  In implementing this section, the state engineer will develop a
priority list of high hazard dams.  The list will be determined by calculating
the relative anticipated breach flows in the event of a dam failure.  The dams
will be ranked from the largest breach flow to the smallest for all high
hazard dams.
(b)  The state engineer shall investigate annually 25 dams on the priority
list in order of their ranking to determine in what areas they are deficient
or do not meet minimum standards.
(c)  Once a determination is made, the owner will be notified that the owner
will be required to undertake investigations to determine requirements
necessary to bring the dam into compliance with minimum standards.
(d)  Once the owner has been informed of the deficiencies of the dam, the
owner will be given 90 days to respond, in writing, as to what steps the owner
is taking to investigate the deficiencies and the time required to complete
the investigations.
(e)  The state engineer will review the proposal, and if it appears
reasonable, will approve it.
(5) The state engineer may not require any mutual irrigation company or water
users association to upgrade a dam in conformance with minimum standards,
unless a grant to pay for 80% of the costs is made available from the Board of
Water Resources.
