38-11-203.   Disbursements from the fund -- Limitations.
(1)  A payment of any claim upon the fund by a qualified beneficiary shall be
made only upon an order issued by the director finding that:
(a)  the claimant was a qualified beneficiary during the construction on a
residence;
(b)  the claimant complied with the requirements of Section 38-11-204; and
(c)  there is adequate money in the fund to pay the amount ordered.
(2)  A payment of a claim upon the fund by a laborer shall be made only upon
an order issued by the director finding that:
(a)  the laborer complied with the requirements of Subsection 38-11-204(7);
and
(b)  there is adequate money in the fund to pay the amount ordered.
(3) (a)  An order under this section may be issued only after the division has
complied with the procedures established by rule under Section 38-11-105.
(b)  The director shall order payment of the qualified services as established
by evidence, or if the claimant has obtained a judgment, then in the amount
awarded for qualified services in the judgment to the extent the qualified
services are attributable to the owner-occupied residence at issue in the
claim.
(c)  The director shall order payment of interest on amounts claimed for
qualified services based on the current prime interest rate at the time
payment was due to the date the claim is approved for payment except for
delays attributable to the claimant but not more than 10% per annum.
(d)  The rate shall be the Prime Lending Rate as published in the Wall Street
Journal on the first business day of each calendar year adjusted annually.
(e)  The director shall order payment of costs in the amount stated in the
judgment.  If the judgment does not state a sum certain for costs, or if no
judgment has been obtained, the director shall order payment of reasonable
costs as supported by evidence.  The claim application fee as established by
the division pursuant to Subsection 38-11-204(1)(b) is not a reimbursable
cost.
(f)  If a judgment has been obtained with attorneys' fees, notwithstanding the
amount stated in a judgment, or if no judgment has been obtained but the
contract provides for attorneys' fees, the director shall order payment of
attorneys' fees not to exceed 15% of qualified services.  If the judgment does
not state a sum for attorneys' fees, no attorneys' fees will be paid by the
director.
(4) (a)  Payments made from the fund may not exceed $75,000 per construction
project to qualified beneficiaries and laborers who have claim against the
fund for that construction project.
(b)  If claims against the fund for a construction project exceed $75,000, the
$75,000 shall be awarded proportionately so that each qualified beneficiary
and laborer awarded compensation from the fund for qualified services shall
receive an identical percentage of the qualified beneficiary's or laborer's
award.
(5)  Subject to the limitations of Subsection (4), if on the day the order is
issued there are inadequate funds to pay the entire claim and the director
determines that the claimant has otherwise met the requirements of Subsection
(1) or (2), the director shall order additional payments once the fund meets
the balance limitations of Section 38-11-206.
