13-11-21.   Settlement of class action -- Complaint in class action delivered to enforcing authority.

(1) (a)  A defendant in a class action may file a written offer of settlement.  If it is not accepted within a reasonable time by a plaintiff class representative, the defendant may file an affidavit reciting the rejection.  The court may determine that the offer has enough merit to present to the members of the class.  If it so determines, it shall order a hearing to determine whether the offer should be approved.  It shall give the best notice of the hearing that is practicable under the circumstances, including notice to each member who can be identified through reasonable effort.  The notice shall specify the terms of the offer and a reasonable period within which members of the class who request it are entitled to be included in the class.  The statute of limitations for those who are excluded pursuant to this Subsection (1) is tolled for the period the class action has been pending, plus an additional year.

(b)  If a member who has previously lost an opportunity to be excluded from the class is excluded at his request in response to notice of the offer of settlement during the period specified under Subsection (1)(a), he may not thereafter participate in a class action for damages respecting the same consumer transaction, unless the court later disapproves the offer of settlement or approves a settlement materially different from that proposed in the original offer of settlement.  After the expiration of the period of limitations, a member of the class is not entitled to be excluded from it.

(c)  If the court later approves the offer of settlement, including changes, if any, required by the court in the interest of a just settlement of the action, it shall enter judgment, which is binding on all persons who are then members of the class.  If the court disapproves the offer or approves a settlement materially different from that proposed in the original offer, notice shall be given to a person who was excluded from the action at his request in response to notice of the offer under Subsection (1)(a), and he is entitled to rejoin the class and, in the case of the approval, participate in the settlement.

(2)  On the commencement of a class action under Section 13-11-19, the class representative shall mail by certified mail with return receipt requested or personally serve a copy of the complaint on the enforcing authority.  Within 30 days after the receipt of a copy of the complaint, but not thereafter, the enforcing authority may intervene in the class action.



Amended by Chapter 324, 2010 General Session

