19-3-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Board" means the Radiation Control Board created under Section 19-1-106.

(2) (a)  "Broker" means a person who performs one or more of the following functions for a generator:

(i)  arranges for transportation of the radioactive waste;

(ii)  collects or consolidates shipments of radioactive waste; or

(iii)  processes radioactive waste in some manner.

(b)  "Broker" does not include a carrier whose sole function is to transport the radioactive waste.

(3)  "Byproduct material" has the same meaning as in 42 U.S.C. Sec. 2014(e)(2).

(4)  "Class B and class C low-level radioactive waste" has the same meaning as in 10 CFR 61.55.

(5)  "Director" means the director of the Division of Radiation Control.

(6)  "Division" means the Division of Radiation Control, created in Subsection 19-1-105(1)(d).

(7)  "Generator" means a person who:

(a)  possesses any material or component:

(i)  that contains radioactivity or is radioactively contaminated; and

(ii)  for which the person foresees no further use; and

(b)  transfers the material or component to:

(i)  a commercial radioactive waste treatment or disposal facility; or

(ii)  a broker.

(8) (a)  "High-level nuclear waste" means spent reactor fuel assemblies, dismantled nuclear reactor components, and solid and liquid wastes from fuel reprocessing and defense-related wastes.

(b)  "High-level nuclear waste" does not include medical or institutional wastes, naturally-occurring radioactive materials, or uranium mill tailings.

(9) (a)  "Low-level radioactive waste" means waste material which contains radioactive nuclides emitting primarily beta or gamma radiation, or both, in concentrations or quantities which exceed applicable federal or state standards for unrestricted release.

(b)  "Low-level radioactive waste" does not include waste containing more than 100 nanocuries of transuranic contaminants per gram of material, nor spent reactor fuel, nor material classified as either high-level waste or waste which is unsuited for disposal by near-surface burial under any applicable federal regulations.

(10)  "Radiation" means ionizing and nonionizing radiation, including gamma rays, X-rays, alpha and beta particles, high speed electrons, and other nuclear particles.

(11)  "Radioactive" means any solid, liquid, or gas which emits radiation spontaneously from decay of unstable nuclei.



Amended by Chapter 360, 2012 General Session

