19-3-103.5.   Board authority and duties.

(1)  The board may:

(a)  make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, that are necessary to implement the provisions of the Radiation Control Act;

(b)  recommend that the director:

(i)  issue orders necessary to enforce the provisions of this part;

(ii)  enforce the orders by appropriate administrative and judicial proceedings; or

(iii)  institute judicial proceedings to secure compliance with this part;

(c) (i)  hold a hearing that is not an adjudicative proceeding; or

(ii)  appoint hearing officers to conduct a hearing that is not an adjudicative proceeding;

(d)  accept, receive, and administer grants or other funds or gifts from public and private agencies, including the federal government, for the purpose of carrying out any of the functions of this part; or

(e)  order the director to impound radioactive material in accordance with Section 19-3-111.

(2)  The board shall:

(a)  prepare a radioactive waste management plan in compliance with Section 19-3-107 as soon as practicable;

(b)  promote the planning and application of pollution prevention and radioactive waste minimization measures to prevent the unnecessary waste and depletion of natural resources;

(c)  to ensure compliance with applicable statutes and regulations:

(i)  review a settlement negotiated by the director in accordance with Subsection 19-3-108(3)(b) that requires a civil penalty of $25,000 or more; and

(ii)  approve or disapprove the settlement;

(d)  submit an application to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for approval as an accrediting body in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 263b, Mammography Quality Standards Act of 1992;

(e)  accredit mammography facilities, pursuant to approval as an accrediting body from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 263b, Mammography Quality Standards Act of 1992; and

(f)  review the qualifications of, and issue certificates of approval to, individuals who:

(i)  survey mammography equipment; or

(ii)  oversee quality assurance practices at mammography facilities.

(3)  The board may not issue, amend, renew, modify, revoke, or terminate any of the following that are subject to the authority granted to the director under Section 19-3-108:

(a)  a permit;

(b)  a license;

(c)  a registration;

(d)  a certification; or

(e)  another administrative authorization made by the director.

(4)  A board member may not speak or act for the board unless the board member is authorized by a majority of a quorum of the board in a vote taken at a meeting of the board.



Amended by Chapter 360, 2012 General Session

