19-3-103.   Radiation Control Board -- Members -- Organization -- Meetings -- Per diem and expenses.

(1)  The board consists of the following nine members:

(a)  the following non-voting member, except that the member may vote to break a tie vote between the voting members:

(i)  the executive director; or

(ii)  an employee of the department designated by the executive director; and

(b)  the following eight voting members, who shall be appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate:

(i)  one representative who is:

(A)  a health physicist; or

(B)  a professional employed in the field of radiation safety;

(ii)  two government representatives who do not represent the federal government;

(iii)  one representative from the radioactive waste management industry;

(iv)  one representative from the uranium milling industry;

(v)  one representative from the regulated industry who is knowledgeable about radiation control regulatory issues;

(vi)  one representative from the public who represents:

(A)  an environmental nongovernmental organization; or

(B)  a nongovernmental organization that represents community interests and does not represent industry interests; and

(vii)  one representative from the public who is trained and experienced in public health.

(2) A member of the board shall:

(a)  be knowledgeable about radiation protection, as evidenced by a professional degree, a professional accreditation, or documented experience;

(b)  be a resident of Utah;

(c)  attend board meetings in accordance with the attendance rules made by the department under Subsection 19-1-201(1)(d)(i)(A); and

(d)  comply with all applicable statutes, rules, and policies, including the conflict of interest rules made by the department under Subsection 19-1-201(1)(d)(i)(B).

(3)  No more than five appointed members shall be from the same political party.

(4) (a)  The governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (4)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that half of the appointed board is appointed every two years.

(c) (i)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(a), the term of a board member who is appointed before July 1, 2012, shall expire on June 30, 2012.

(ii)  On July 1, 2012, the governor shall appoint or reappoint board members in accordance with this section.

(5)  Each board member is eligible for reappointment to more than one term.

(6)  Each board member shall continue in office until the expiration of his term and until a successor is appointed, but not more than 90 days after the expiration of his term.

(7)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term by the governor, after considering recommendations by the department and with the consent of the Senate.

(8)  The board shall annually elect a chair and vice chair from its members.

(9)  The board shall meet at least quarterly.  Other meetings may be called by the chair, by the director, or upon the request of three members of the board.

(10)  Reasonable notice shall be given each member of the board prior to any meeting.

(11) Five members constitute a quorum.  The action of a majority of the members present is the action of the board.

(12)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 360, 2012 General Session

