19-3-105.   Definitions -- Legislative and gubernatorial approval required
for radioactive waste license -- Exceptions -- Application for new, renewed,
or amended license.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Alternate feed material" has the same definition as provided in Section
59-24-102.
(b) (i)  "Class A low-level radioactive waste" means:
(A)  radioactive waste that is classified as class A waste under 10 C.F.R.
61.55; and
(B)  radium-226 up to a maximum radionuclide concentration level of 10,000
picocuries per gram.
(ii)  "Class A low-level radioactive waste" does not include:
(A)  uranium mill tailings;
(B)  naturally occurring radioactive materials; or
(C)  the following radionuclides if classified as "special nuclear material"
under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. 2014:
(I)  uranium-233; and
(II)  uranium-235 with a radionuclide concentration level greater than the
concentration limits for specific conditions and enrichments established by an
order of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission:
(Aa)  to ensure criticality safety for a radioactive waste facility in the
state; and
(Bb)  in response to a request, submitted prior to January 1, 2004, from a
radioactive waste facility in the state to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
to amend the facility's special nuclear material exemption order.
(c) (i)  "Radioactive waste facility" or "facility" means a facility that
receives, transfers, stores, decays in storage, treats, or disposes of
radioactive waste:
(A)  commercially for profit; or
(B)  generated at locations other than the radioactive waste facility.
(ii)  "Radioactive waste facility" does not include a facility that receives:
(A)  alternate feed material for reprocessing; or
(B)  radioactive waste from a location in the state designated as a processing
site under 42 U.S.C. 7912(f).
(d)  "Radioactive waste license" or "license" means a radioactive material
license issued by the executive secretary under Subsection 19-3-108(2)(c)(i),
to own, construct, modify, or operate a radioactive waste facility.
(2)  The provisions of this section are subject to the prohibition under
Section 19-3-103.7.
(3) Subject to Subsection (10), a person may not own, construct, modify, or
operate a radioactive waste facility without:
(a)  having received a radioactive waste license for the facility;
(b)  meeting the requirements established by rule under Section 19-3-104;
(c)  the approval of the governing body of the municipality or county
responsible for local planning and zoning where the radioactive waste is or
will be located; and
(d)  subsequent to meeting the requirements of Subsections (3)(a) through (c),
the approval of the governor and the Legislature.
(4) Subject to Subsection (10), a new radioactive waste license application,
or an application to renew or amend an existing radioactive waste license, is
subject to the requirements of Subsections (3)(b) through (d) if the
application, renewal, or amendment:
(a)  specifies a different geographic site than a previously submitted
application;
(b)  would cost 50% or more of the cost of construction of the original
radioactive waste facility or the modification would result in an increase in
capacity or throughput of a cumulative total of 50% of the total capacity or
throughput which was approved in the facility license as of January 1, 1990,
or the initial approval facility license if the initial license approval is
subsequent to January 1, 1990; or
(c)  requests approval to receive, transfer, store, decay in storage, treat,
or dispose of radioactive waste having a higher radionuclide concentration
limit than allowed, under an existing approved license held by the facility,
for the specific type of waste to be received, transferred, stored, decayed in
storage, treated, or disposed of.
(5)  The requirements of Subsection (4)(c) do not apply to an application to
renew or amend an existing radioactive waste license if:
(a)  the radioactive waste facility requesting the renewal or amendment has
received a license prior to January 1, 2004; and
(b)  the application to renew or amend its license is limited to a request to
approve the receipt, transfer, storage, decay in storage, treatment, or
disposal of class A low-level radioactive waste.
(6)  A radioactive waste facility which receives a new radioactive waste
license after May 3, 2004, is subject to the requirements of Subsections
(3)(b) through (d) for any license application, renewal, or amendment that
requests approval to receive, transfer, store, decay in storage, treat, or
dispose of radioactive waste not previously approved under an existing license
held by the facility.
(7)  If the board finds that approval of additional radioactive waste license
applications, renewals, or amendments will result in inadequate oversight,
monitoring, or licensure compliance and enforcement of existing and any
additional radioactive waste facilities, the board shall suspend acceptance of
further applications for radioactive waste licenses.  The board shall report
the suspension to the Legislative Management Committee.
(8)  The board shall review each proposed radioactive waste license
application to determine whether the application complies with the provisions
of this chapter and the rules of the board.
(9) (a)  If the radioactive waste license application is determined to be
complete, the board shall issue a notice of completeness.
(b)  If the board determines that the radioactive waste license application is
incomplete, the board shall issue a notice of deficiency, listing the
additional information to be provided by the applicant to complete the
application.
(10)  The requirements of Subsections (3)(c) and (d) and Subsection
19-3-104(11) do not apply to:
(a)  a radioactive waste license that is in effect on December 31, 2006,
including all amendments to the license that have taken effect as of December
31, 2006;
(b)  a license application for a facility in existence as of December 31,
2006, unless the license application includes an area beyond the facility
boundary approved in the license described in Subsection (10)(a); or
(c)  an application to renew or amend a license described in Subsection
(10)(a), unless the renewal or amendment includes an area beyond the facility
boundary approved in the license described in Subsection (10)(a).
