19-3-106.2.   Fee for perpetual care and maintenance of commercial
radioactive waste disposal facilities -- Radioactive Waste Perpetual Care and
Maintenance Fund created -- Contents -- Use of fund monies -- Evaluation.
(1)  As used in this section, "perpetual care and maintenance" means perpetual
care and maintenance of a commercial radioactive waste treatment or disposal
facility, excluding sites within the facility used for the disposal of
byproduct material, as required by applicable laws, rules, and license
requirements beginning 100 years after the date of final closure of the
facility.
(2) (a)  On and after July 1, 2002, the owner or operator of an active
commercial radioactive waste treatment or disposal facility shall pay an
annual fee of $400,000 to provide for the perpetual care and maintenance of
the facility.
(b)  The owner or operator shall remit the fee to the department on or before
July 1.
(3)  The department shall deposit fees received under Subsection (2) into the
Radioactive Waste Perpetual Care and Maintenance Fund created in Subsection
(4).
(4) (a)  There is created the Radioactive Waste Perpetual Care and Maintenance
Fund to finance perpetual care and maintenance of commercial radioactive waste
treatment or disposal facilities, excluding sites within those facilities used
for the disposal of byproduct material.
(b)  The sources of revenue for the fund are:
(i)  the fee imposed under this section; and
(ii)  investment income derived from money in the fund.
(c) (i)  The revenues for the fund shall be segregated into subaccounts for
each commercial radioactive waste treatment or disposal facility covered by
the fund.
(ii)  Each subaccount shall contain:
(A)  the fees paid by each owner or operator of a commercial radioactive waste
treatment or disposal facility; and
(B)  the associated investment income.
(5)  The Legislature may appropriate money from the Radioactive Waste
Perpetual Care and Maintenance Fund for:
(a)  perpetual care and maintenance of a commercial radioactive waste
treatment or disposal facility, excluding sites within the facility used for
the disposal of byproduct material, beginning 100 years after the date of
final closure of the facility; or
(b)  maintenance or monitoring of, or implementing corrective action at, a
commercial radioactive waste treatment or disposal facility, excluding sites
within the facility used for the disposal of byproduct material, before the
end of 100 years after the date of final closure of the facility, if:
(i)  the owner or operator is unwilling or unable to carry out postclosure
maintenance, monitoring, or corrective action; and
(ii)  the financial surety arrangements made by the owner or operator,
including any required under applicable law, are insufficient to cover the
costs of postclosure maintenance, monitoring, or corrective action.
(6)  The money appropriated from the Radioactive Waste Perpetual Care and
Maintenance Fund for the purposes specified in Subsection (5)(a) or (5)(b) at
a particular commercial radioactive waste treatment or disposal facility may
be appropriated only from the subaccount established under Subsection (4)(c)
for the facility.
(7)  The attorney general shall bring legal action against the owner or
operator or take other steps to secure the recovery or reimbursement of the
costs of maintenance, monitoring, or corrective action, including legal costs,
incurred pursuant to Subsection (5)(b).
(8)  The board shall direct an evaluation of the adequacy of the fund as
required under Section 19-1-307.
(9)  This section does not apply to a uranium mill licensed under 10 C.F.R.
Part 40, Domestic Licensing of Source Material.
