19-3-109.   Civil penalties -- Appeals.

(1)  A person who violates any provision of Sections 19-3-104 through 19-3-113, any rule or order issued under the authority of those sections, or the terms of a license, permit, or registration certificate issued under the authority of those sections is subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000 for each violation.

(2)  The director may assess and make a demand for payment of a penalty under this section and may compromise or remit that penalty.

(3)  In order to make demand for payment of a penalty assessed under this section, the director shall issue a notice of agency action, specifying, in addition to the requirements for notices of agency action contained in Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act:

(a)  the date, facts, and nature of each act or omission charged;

(b)  the provision of the statute, rule, order, license, permit, or registration certificate that is alleged to have been violated;

(c)  each penalty that the director proposes to impose, together with the amount and date of effect of that penalty; and

(d)  that failure to pay the penalty or respond may result in a civil action for collection.

(4)  A person notified according to Subsection (3) may request an adjudicative proceeding.

(5)  Upon request by the director, the attorney general may institute a civil action to collect a penalty imposed under this section.

(6) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (6)(b), the department shall deposit all money collected from civil penalties imposed under this section into the General Fund.

(b)  The department may reimburse itself and local governments from money collected from civil penalties for extraordinary expenses incurred in environmental enforcement activities.

(c)  The department shall regulate reimbursements by making rules that:

(i)  define qualifying environmental enforcement activities; and

(ii)  define qualifying extraordinary expenses.



Amended by Chapter 360, 2012 General Session

