19-3-203.   Acceptance of low-level waste by facilities in party states --
Requirements for acceptance of waste generated outside region of party states
-- Cooperation in determining site of facility required within region of party
states -- Allowance of access to low-level waste and hazardous chemical waste
disposal facilities by certain party states -- Establishment of fees and
requirements by host states.
(1)  Facilities located in any party state, other than facilities established
or maintained by individual low-level waste generators for the management of
that party state's own low-level waste, shall accept low-level waste generated
in any party state if the waste has been packaged and transported according to
applicable laws and regulations.
(2)  No facility located in any party state may accept low-level waste
generated outside of the region comprised of the party states, except as
provided in Section 19-3-204.
(3)  Until Subsection (2) takes effect, facilities located in any party state
may accept low-level waste generated outside of any of the party states only
if the waste is accompanied by a certificate of compliance issued by an
official of the state in which the waste shipment originated. The certificate
shall be in the form  required by the host state, and shall contain at least
the following:
(a)  the generator's name and address;
(b)  a description of the contents of the low-level waste container;
(c)  a statement that the low-level waste being shipped has been inspected by
the official who issued the certificate or by his or her agent or by a
representative of the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and found
to have been packaged in compliance with applicable federal regulations;
(d)  additional requirements imposed by the host state; and
(e)  a binding agreement by the state of origin to reimburse any party state
for any liability or expense incurred as a result of an accidental release of
the waste during shipment or after the waste reaches the facility.
(4) (a)  Each party state shall cooperate with the other party states in
determining the appropriate site of any facility that may be required within
the region comprised of the party states, in order to maximize public health
and safety while minimizing the use of any party state as the host of the
facilities on a permanent basis.
(b)  Each party state further agrees that decisions regarding low-level waste
management facilities in its region will be reached through a good faith
process which takes into account the burdens borne by each of the party states
as well as the benefits each has received.
(5) (a)  The party states recognize that the issue of hazardous chemical waste
management is similar in many respects to that of low-level waste management.
Therefore, in consideration of the state of Washington allowing access to its
low-level waste disposal facility by generators in other party states, party
states such as Oregon and Idaho which host hazardous chemical waste disposal
facilities will allow access to the facilities by generators within other
party states.
(b)  Nothing in this compact prevents any party state from limiting the nature
and type of hazardous chemical or low-level wastes to be accepted at
facilities within its borders or from ordering the closure of the facilities,
so long as the action by a host state is applied equally to all generators
within the region comprised of the party states.
(6)  Any host state may establish a schedule of fees and requirements related
to its facility, to assure that closure, perpetual care, maintenance, and
contingency requirements are met including adequate bonding.
