19-3-302.   Legislative intent.

(1) (a)  The state enacts this part to prevent the placement of any high-level nuclear waste or greater than class C radioactive waste in Utah.  The state also recognizes that high-level nuclear waste or greater than class C radioactive waste may be placed within the exterior boundaries of the state, pursuant to a license from the federal government, or by the federal government itself, in violation of this state law.

(b)  Due to this possibility, the state also enacts provisions in this part to regulate transportation, transfer, storage, decay in storage, treatment, and disposal of any high-level nuclear waste and greater than class C radioactive waste in Utah, thereby asserting and protecting the state's interests in environmental and economic resources consistent with 42 U.S.C.A. 2011 et seq., Atomic Energy Act and 42 U.S.C.A. 10101 et seq., Nuclear Waste Policy Act, should the federal government decide to authorize any entity to operate, or operate itself, in violation of this state law.

(2)  Neither the Atomic Energy Act nor the Nuclear Waste Policy Act provides for siting a large privately owned high-level nuclear waste transfer, storage, decay in storage, or treatment facility away from the vicinity of the reactors.  The Atomic Energy Act and the Nuclear Waste Policy Act specifically define authorized storage and disposal programs and activities.  The state in enacting this part is not preempted by federal law, since any proposed facilities that would be sited in Utah are not contemplated or authorized by federal law and, in any circumstance, this part is not contrary to or inconsistent with federal law or congressional intent.

(3)  The state has environmental and economic interests which do not involve nuclear safety regulation, and which shall be considered and complied with in siting a high-level nuclear waste or greater than class C radioactive waste transfer, storage, decay in storage, treatment, or disposal facility and in transporting these wastes in the state.

(4)  An additional primary purpose of this part is to ensure protection of the state from nonradiological hazards associated with any waste transportation, transfer, storage, decay in storage, treatment, or disposal.

(5)  The state recognizes the sovereign rights of Indian tribes within the state.  However, any proposed transfer, storage, decay in storage, treatment, or disposal facility located on a reservation which directly affects and impacts state interests by creating off-reservation effects such as potential or actual degradation of soils and groundwater, potential or actual contamination of surface water, pollution of the ambient air, emergency planning costs, impacts on development, agriculture, and ranching, and increased transportation activity, is subject to state jurisdiction.

(6)  There is no tradition of regulation by the Indian tribes in Utah of high-level nuclear waste or higher than class C radioactive waste.  The state does have a long history of regulation of radioactive sources and natural resources and in the transfer, storage, treatment, and transportation of materials and wastes throughout the state.  The state finds that its interests are even greater when nonmembers of an Indian tribe propose to locate a facility on tribal trust lands primarily to avoid state regulation and state authorities under federal law.

(7) (a)  This part is not intended to modify existing state requirements for obtaining environmental approvals, permits, and licenses, including surface and groundwater permits and air quality permits, when the permits are necessary under state and federal law to construct and operate a high-level nuclear waste or greater than class C radioactive waste transfer, storage, decay in storage, treatment, or disposal facility.

(b)  Any source of air pollution proposed to be located within the state, including sources located within the boundaries of an Indian reservation, which will potentially or actually have a direct and significant impact on ambient air within the state, is required to obtain an approval order and permit from the state under Section 19-2-108.

(c)  Any facility which will potentially or actually have a significant impact on the state's surface or groundwater resources is required to obtain a permit under Section 19-5-107 even if located within the boundaries of an Indian reservation.

(8)  The state finds that the transportation, transfer, storage, decay in storage, treatment, and disposal of high-level nuclear waste and greater than class C radioactive waste within the state is an ultra-hazardous activity which carries with it the risk that any release of waste may result in enormous economic and human injury.



Amended by Chapter 297, 2011 General Session

