19-3-303.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Final judgment" means a final ruling or judgment, including any
supporting opinion, that determines the rights of the parties and concerning
which all appellate remedies have been exhausted or the time for appeal has
expired.
(2)  "Goods" means any materials or supplies, whether raw, processed, or
manufactured.
(3)  "Greater than class C radioactive waste" means low-level radioactive
waste that has higher concentrations of specific radionuclides than allowed
for class C waste.
(4)  "Gross value of the contract" means the totality of the consideration
received for any goods, services, or municipal-type services delivered or
rendered in the state without any deduction for expense paid or accrued with
respect to it.
(5)  "High-level nuclear waste" has the same meaning as in Section 19-3-102.
(6)  "Municipal-type services" includes, but is not limited to:
(a)  fire protection service;
(b)  waste and garbage collection and disposal;
(c)  planning and zoning;
(d)  street lighting;
(e)  life support and paramedic services;
(f)  water;
(g)  sewer;
(h)  electricity;
(i)  natural gas or other fuel; or
(j)  law enforcement.
(7)  "Organization" means a corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, limited liability partnership, joint venture, consortium,
association, trust, or other entity formed to undertake an enterprise, whether
or not for profit.
(8)  "Placement" means transportation, transfer, storage, decay in storage,
treatment, or disposal.
(9)  "Political subdivision" means any county, city, town, school district,
public transit district, redevelopment agency, special improvement or taxing
district, or other governmental subdivision or public corporation.
(10)  "Rule" means a rule made by the department under Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(11)  "Service" or "services" means any work or governmental program which
provides a benefit.
(12)  "Storage facility" means any facility which stores, holds, or otherwise
provides for the emplacement of waste regardless of the intent to recover that
waste for subsequent use, processing, or disposal.
(13)  "Transfer facility" means any facility which transfers waste from and
between transportation modes, vehicles, cars, or other units, and includes
rail terminals and intermodal transfer points.
(14)  "Waste" or "wastes" means high-level nuclear waste and greater than
class C radioactive waste.
