63K-4-103.   Definitions.
(1)  "Attack" means a nuclear, conventional, biological, or chemical warfare
action against the United States of America or this state.
(2)  "Chief executive officer" means:
(a)  for a municipality:
(i)  the mayor for a municipality operating under all forms of municipal
government except the council-manager form of government; or
(ii)  the city manager for a municipality operating under the council-manager
form of government; or
(b)  for a county:
(i)  the chair of the county commission for a county operating under the
county commission or expanded county commission form of government;
(ii)  the county executive officer for a county operating under the county-
executive council form of government; or
(iii)  the county manager for a county operating under the council-manager
form of government.
(3)  "Disaster" means a situation causing, or threatening to cause, widespread
damage, social disruption, or injury or loss of life or property resulting
from attack, internal disturbance, natural phenomenon or technological hazard.
(4)  "Internal disturbance" means a riot, prison break, disruptive terrorism
or strike.
(5)  "Local emergency" means a condition in any political subdivision of the
state which requires that emergency assistance be provided by the affected
political subdivision to save lives and protect property within its
jurisdiction in response to a disaster, or to avoid or reduce the threat of a
disaster.
(6)  "Natural phenomenon" means any earthquake, tornado, storm, flood,
landslide, avalanche, forest or range fire, drought, or epidemic.
(7)  "Political subdivision" means municipality or county.
(8)  "State of emergency" means a condition in any part of this state which
requires state government emergency assistance to supplement the local efforts
of the affected political subdivision to save lives and to protect property,
public health, welfare, and safety in the event of a disaster or to avoid or
reduce the threat of a disaster.
(9)  "Technological hazard" means any hazardous materials accident, mine
accident, train derailment, truck wreck, air crash, radiation incident,
pollution, structural fire or explosion.
