53A-8-104.   Dismissal procedures.
(1)  The district shall provide employees with a written statement of causes
under which a career employee's contract may not be renewed or continued
beyond the then-current school year, under which a contract of each class of
personnel may not be renewed or continued beyond the then-current school year,
and under which a contract can be otherwise terminated during the contract
term, and the orderly dismissal procedures which are used by the district in
cases of contract termination, discontinuance, or nonrenewal.
(2) (a)  If the district intends to terminate a contract during its term or
discontinue a career employee's contract beyond the then current school year
for reasons of unsatisfactory performance, the unsatisfactory performance must
be documented in at least two evaluations conducted at any time within the
preceding three years in accordance with district policies or practices.
(b)  The district shall notify a career employee, at least 30 days prior to
issuing notice of intent not to renew or continue the employee's contract
beyond the then-current school year, that continued employment is in question
and the reasons for the anticipated nonrenewal or discontinuance.
(c)  The board shall give the career employee an opportunity to correct the
problem in accordance with the district evaluation policies.
(d)  The board may grant the career employee assistance to correct the
deficiencies, including informal conferences and the services of school
personnel within the district consistent with Subsections 53A-1a-104(7) and
53A-6-102(2)(a) and (b).
(3) (a)  If the career employee does not correct the problem as determined in
accordance with the evaluation and personnel policies of the district and the
district intends to not renew or discontinue the contract of employment of a
career employee at the end of the then-current school year, it shall give
notice of that intention to the employee.
(b)  The district shall issue the notice at least 30 days before the end of
the career employee's contract term.
(4)  A district shall notify a provisional employee at least 60 days before
the end of the provisional employee's contract if the employee will not be
offered a contract for a subsequent term of employment.
(5)  In the absence of a notice, an employee is considered employed for the
next contract term with a salary based upon the salary schedule applicable to
the class of employee into which the individual falls.
(6)  If the district intends to not renew or discontinue the contract of a
career employee or to terminate a career or provisional employee's contract
during the contract term:
(a)  the district shall give written notice of the intent to the employee;
(b)  the notice shall be served by personal delivery or by certified mail
addressed to the individual's last-known address as shown on the records of
the district;
(c)  except as provided under Subsection (3)(b), the district shall give
notice at least 30 days prior to the proposed date of termination;
(d)  the notice shall state the date of termination and the detailed reasons
for termination;
(e)  the notice shall advise the individual that he has a right to a fair
hearing and that the hearing is waived if it is not requested within 15 days
after the notice of termination was either personally delivered or mailed to
the individual's most recent address shown on the district's personnel
records; and
(f)  the notice shall state that failure of the employee to request a hearing
in accordance with procedures set forth in the notice constitutes a waiver of
that right and that the district may then proceed with termination without
further notice.
(7)  The procedure under which a contract is terminated during its term may
include a provision under which the active service of the employee is
suspended pending a hearing if it appears that the continued employment of the
individual may be harmful to students or to the district.
(8) (a)  Suspension pending a hearing may be without pay if an authorized
representative  of the district determines, after providing the employee with
an opportunity for an informal conference to discuss the allegations, that it
is more likely than not that the allegations against the employee are true and
will result in termination.
(b)  If termination is not subsequently ordered, the employee shall receive
back pay for the period of suspension without pay.
(9)  The procedure shall provide for a written notice of suspension or final
termination including findings of fact upon which the action is based if the
suspension or termination is for cause.
