53-8-205.   Safety inspection required -- Frequency of safety inspection -- Safety inspection certificate required -- Out-of-state permits.

(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), a person may not operate on a highway a motor vehicle required to be registered in this state unless the motor vehicle has passed a safety inspection if required in the current year.

(b)  Subsection (1)(a) does not apply to:

(i)  a vehicle that is exempt from registration under Section 41-1a-205;

(ii)  an off-highway vehicle, unless the off-highway vehicle is being registered as a street-legal all-terrain vehicle in accordance with Section 41-6a-1509;

(iii)  a vintage vehicle as defined in Section 41-21-1;

(iv)  a commercial vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating over 26,000 pounds that:

(A)  is operating with an apportioned registration under Section 41-1a-301; and

(B)  has a valid annual federal inspection that complies with the requirements of 49 C.F.R. Sec. 396.17; and

(v)  a trailer, semitrailer, or trailering equipment attached to a commercial motor vehicle described in Subsection (1)(a)(iv) that has a valid annual federal inspection that complies with the requirements of 49 C.F.R. Sec. 396.17.

(2)  Except as provided in Subsection (3), the frequency of the safety inspection shall be determined based on the age of the vehicle determined by model year and shall:

(a)  be required each year for a vehicle that is 10 or more years old on January 1; or

(b)  for each vehicle that is less than 10 years old on January 1, be required in the fourth year and the eighth year;

(c)  be made by a safety inspector certified by the division at a safety inspection station authorized by the division;

(d)  cover an inspection of the motor vehicle mechanism, brakes, and equipment to ensure proper adjustment and condition as required by department rules; and

(e)  include an inspection for the display of license plates in accordance with Section 41-1a-404.

(3) (a) (i)  A salvage vehicle as defined in Section 41-1a-1001 is required to pass a safety inspection when an application is made for initial registration as a salvage vehicle.

(ii)  After initial registration as a salvage vehicle, the frequency of the safety inspection shall correspond with the model year, as provided in Subsection (2).

(b)  A motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of 10,001 pounds or more is required to pass a safety inspection annually.

(4) (a)  A safety inspection station shall issue two safety inspection certificates to the owner of:

(i)  each motor vehicle that passes a safety inspection under this section; and

(ii)  a street-legal all-terrain vehicle that meets all the equipment requirements in Section 41-6a-1509.

(b)  A safety inspection station shall use one safety inspection certificate issued under this Subsection (4) for processing the vehicle registration.

(c)  A person operating a motor vehicle shall have in the person's immediate possession a safety inspection certificate or other evidence of compliance with the requirement to obtain a safety inspection under this section.

(5)  The division may:

(a)  authorize the acceptance in this state of a safety inspection certificate issued in another state having a safety inspection law similar to this state; and

(b)  extend the time within which a safety inspection certificate must be obtained by the resident owner of a vehicle that was not in this state during the time a safety inspection was required.



Amended by Chapter 64, 2012 General Session, (Coordination Clause) 

Amended by Chapter 356, 2012 General Session

