10-1-104.   Definitions.
As used in this title:
(1)  "City" means a municipality that is classified by population as a city of
the first class, a city of the second class, a city of the third class, a city
of the fourth class, or a city of the fifth class, under Section 10-2-301.
(2)  "Contiguous" means:
(a)  if used to described an area, continuous, uninterrupted, and without an
island of territory not included as part of the area; and
(b)  if used to describe an area's relationship to another area, sharing a
common boundary.
(3)  "Governing body" means collectively the legislative body and the
executive of any municipality.  Unless otherwise provided:
(a)  in a city of the first or second class, the governing body is the city
commission;
(b)  in a city of the third, fourth, or fifth class, the governing body is the
city council; and
(c)  in a town, the governing body is the town council.
(4)  "Municipal" means of or relating to a municipality.
(5)  "Municipality" means a city of the first class, city of the second class,
city of the third class, city of the fourth class, city of the fifth class, or
a town, as classified in Section 10-2-301.
(6)  "Peninsula," when used to describe an unincorporated area, means an area
surrounded on more than 1/2 of its boundary distance, but not completely, by
incorporated territory and situated so that the length of a line drawn across
the unincorporated area from an incorporated area to an incorporated area on
the opposite side shall be less than 25% of the total aggregate boundaries of
the unincorporated area.
(7)  "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, organization,
association, trust, governmental agency, or any other legal entity.
(8)  "Provisions of law" shall include other statutes of the state of Utah and
ordinances, rules, and regulations properly adopted by any municipality unless
the construction is clearly contrary to the intent of state law.
(9)  "Recorder," unless clearly inapplicable, includes and applies to a town
clerk.
(10)  "Town" means a municipality classified by population as a town under
Section 10-2-301.
(11)  "Unincorporated" means not within a municipality.
