10-1-203.5.   Disproportionate rental fee -- Good landlord training program -- Fee reduction.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Business" means the rental of one or more residential units within a municipality.

(b)  "Disproportionate rental fee" means a fee adopted by a municipality to recover its disproportionate costs of providing municipal services to residential rental units compared to similarly-situated owner-occupied housing.

(c)  "Disproportionate rental fee reduction" means a reduction of a disproportionate rental fee as a condition of complying with the requirements of a good landlord training program.

(d)  "Exempt business" means the rental of a residential unit within a single structure that contains:

(i)  no more than four residential units; and

(ii)  one unit occupied by the owner.

(e)  "Exempt landlord" means a residential landlord who demonstrates to a municipality:

(i)  completion of any live good landlord training program offered by any other Utah city that offers a good landlord program;

(ii)  that the residential landlord has a current professional designation of "property manager"; or

(iii)  compliance with a requirement described in Subsection (4).

(f)  "Good landlord training program" means a program offered by a municipality to encourage business practices that are designed to reduce the disproportionate cost of municipal services to residential rental units by offering a disproportionate rental fee reduction for any landlord who:

(i) (A)  completes a landlord training program provided by the municipality; or

(B)  is an exempt landlord;

(ii)  implements measures to reduce crime in rental housing as specified in a municipal ordinance or policy; and

(iii)  operates and manages rental housing in accordance with an applicable municipal ordinance.

(g)  "Municipal services" means:

(i)  public utilities;

(ii)  police;

(iii)  fire;

(iv)  code enforcement;

(v)  storm water runoff;

(vi)  traffic control;

(vii)  parking;

(viii)  transportation;

(ix)  beautification; or

(x)  snow removal.

(h)  "Municipal services study" means a study of the cost of all municipal services to rental housing that:

(i)  are reasonably attributable to the rental housing; and

(ii)  exceed the municipality's cost to serve similarly-situated, owner-occupied housing.

(2)  The legislative body of a municipality may charge and collect a disproportionate rental fee on a business that causes disproportionate costs to municipal services if the municipality:

(a)  has performed a municipal services study; and

(b)  adopts a disproportionate rental fee that does not exceed the amount that is justified by the municipal services study on a per residential rental unit basis.

(3)  A municipality may not:

(a)  impose a disproportionate rental fee on an exempt business;

(b)  require a landlord to deny tenancy to an individual released from probation or parole whose conviction date occurred more than four years before the date of tenancy; or

(c)  without cause and notice, require a landlord to submit to a random building inspection.

(4)  In addition to a requirement or qualification described in Subsection (1)(e), a municipality may recognize a landlord training described in its ordinance.

(5) (a)  If a municipality adopts a good landlord program, the municipality shall provide an appeal procedure affording due process of law to a landlord who is denied a disproportionate rental fee reduction.

(b)  A municipality may not adopt a new disproportionate rental fee unless the municipality provides a disproportionate rental fee reduction.



Enacted by Chapter 289, 2012 General Session

