31A-6b-102.   Definitions.

(1)  This section defines a term only for purposes of this chapter.  A term defined in this section is not required to be used in a guaranteed asset protection waiver.

(2)  For purposes of this chapter:

(a)  "Administrative functions" includes providing:

(i)  document development, processing, and management;

(ii)  data processing and support;

(iii)  compliance services;

(iv)  waiver fee processing;

(v)  benefit determination;

(vi)  technology support; or

(vii)  personnel support.

(b)  "Administrator" means a person who provides administrative functions related to a guaranteed asset protection waiver.

(c)  "Borrower" means a person who under a finance agreement is:

(i)  a debtor;

(ii)  a retail buyer; or

(iii)  a lessee.

(d)  "Creditor" means a person who is:

(i)  a lender in a loan or credit transaction;

(ii)  a retail seller of a vehicle that provides credit to a retail buyer of the vehicle;

(iii)  a lessor in a lease transaction;

(iv)  a seller in a commercial retail installment transaction; or

(v)  an assignee of a person listed in this Subsection (2)(d) to whom a credit obligation is payable.

(e)  "Finance agreement" means one or more of the following for the purchase or lease of a vehicle:

(i)  a loan;

(ii)  a retail installment sales contract; or

(iii)  a lease.

(f)  "Guaranteed asset protection waiver" means a contract for a separate charge:

(i)  under which a creditor agrees to waive all or part of the amounts due on a borrower's finance agreement if a vehicle is subject to:

(A)  a total physical damage loss; or

(B)  unrecovered theft; and

(ii)  that is made part of a finance agreement, even if the guaranteed asset protection waiver is stated in a separate addendum to the finance agreement.

(g)  "Preliminary period" means a time period that:

(i)  begins the day on which a guaranteed asset protection waiver becomes effective; and

(ii)  ends the last day on which a borrower may cancel the guaranteed asset protection waiver with a full refund if no benefits have been provided.

(h)  "Restricted account" means the Guaranteed Asset Protection Waiver Restricted Account created in Section 31A-6b-204.

(i) (i)  "Vehicle" means a vehicle that is:

(A)  self propelled or towed; and

(B)  designed for personal or commercial use.

(ii)  "Vehicle" includes:

(A)  an automobile;

(B)  a truck;

(C)  a motorcycle;

(D)  a recreational vehicle;

(E)  an all terrain vehicle;

(F)  a snowmobile;

(G)  a camper;

(H)  a boat;

(I)  a personal watercraft; or

(J)  a trailer for a motorcycle, boat, camper, or personal watercraft.

