31A-6b-303.   Cancellation or termination of a guaranteed asset protection waiver.

(1) (a)  A borrower may cancel a guaranteed asset protection waiver in accordance with this section.

(b)  A borrower may not waive by contract the borrower's right to cancel a guaranteed asset protection waiver in accordance with this section.

(c)  A guaranteed asset protection waiver terminates on the day on which the related finance agreement terminates.

(2) (a)  A guaranteed asset protection waiver shall provide for a preliminary period of at least 30 days.

(b)  If a borrower cancels a guaranteed asset protection waiver or if a guaranteed asset protection waiver terminates within the preliminary period, the borrower is entitled to a refund of the charge for the guaranteed asset protection waiver as follows:

(i)  if benefits have not been provided, a full refund; or

(ii)  if benefits have been provided, a refund to the extent provided for in the guaranteed asset protection waiver.

(3) (a)  If a guaranteed asset protection waiver is cancelled by the borrower or terminates after the preliminary period, to obtain a refund of any portion of the charge for the guaranteed asset protection waiver, the borrower shall request the refund:

(i)  in a writing provided to:

(A)  the creditor;

(B)  an administrator; or

(C)  another person designated in the guaranteed asset protection waiver;

(ii)  within 90 days of the day on which an event occurs that terminates the finance agreement if the refund is sought on the basis of termination of a finance agreement; and

(iii)  in accordance with any additional terms in the guaranteed asset protection waiver.

(b)  If a guaranteed asset protection waiver is cancelled by the borrower or terminates after the preliminary period, but before the term of the finance agreement ends, a borrower is entitled to a refund:

(i)  of the portion of the charge for the guaranteed asset protection waiver that under the terms of the guaranteed asset protection waiver is considered unearned; and

(ii)  subject to any other terms of the guaranteed asset protection waiver.

(4) (a)  If the cancellation of a guaranteed asset protection waiver occurs as a result of any of the following, a refund may be paid directly to the creditor or administrator and applied as provided in Subsection (4)(b):

(i)  a default under the finance agreement;

(ii)  the repossession of the vehicle associated with the finance agreement; or

(iii)  any other type of termination of the finance agreement or guaranteed asset protection waiver.

(b)  A creditor may apply a refund described in this Subsection (4) to reduce the amount owed under a finance agreement, unless the borrower can show that the finance agreement is paid in full.



Enacted by Chapter 274, 2010 General Session

