32A-8-301 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Distillery license -- Specific authority
and restrictions.
(1)  A distillery license allows the licensee to:
(a)  import, manufacture, store, transport, or export liquor;
(b)  sell liquor to the department and to out-of-state customers;
(c)  purchase alcoholic products for blending and manufacturing purposes if
the department is notified of the purchase and the date of delivery; and
(d)  warehouse on its premises alcoholic products which it manufactures or
purchases for manufacturing purposes.
(2)  Any alcoholic product may be sold by a distiller directly to any person
engaged within the state in a mechanical or industrial business, or in
scientific pursuits that require the use of alcoholic products.  The buyer
shall hold a valid special permit from the department authorizing the use of
alcoholic products.  The manufacturer may sell to the permittee alcoholic
products only in types as the permit shall state.   The sale of alcoholic
products for this purpose is subject to rules as may be prescribed by the
department and the federal government.
(3)  If considered necessary, the commission or department may:
(a)  require certain alterations to the plant, equipment, or premises;
(b)  require the alteration or removal of any unsuitable alcoholic beverage-
making equipment or material;
(c)  require the licensee to clean, disinfect, ventilate, or otherwise improve
the sanitary and working conditions of any plant, premises, and equipment; or
(d)  demand that all books, records, or data pertaining to the materials and
ingredients used in the manufacture of alcoholic products be made available to
the commission or department upon request.
(4) (a)  A distillery licensee may not permit any alcoholic beverage to be
consumed on its premises, except that a distillery may allow its employees to
consume on its premises alcoholic products as the distillery may furnish to
them without charge.
(b)  A distillery licensee may allow any person who can lawfully buy alcoholic
beverages for wholesale or retail distribution to consume bona fide samples of
its product on the distillery premises.
(5)  The federal definitions, standards of identity and quality and labeling
requirements for distilled liquor, in the Federal Alcoholic Administration
regulations, and the amendments thereto, are adopted to the extent they are
not contrary to or inconsistent with laws of this state.
