32A-8-401 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Authority and operational restrictions.
(1)  A brewery license allows the licensee to:
(a)  manufacture, brew, store, transport, or export beer, heavy beer, and
flavored malt beverages;
(b)  sell heavy beer and, on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt
beverage to:
(i)  the department;
(ii)  a military installation; and
(iii)  an out-of-state customer;
(c)  sell beer to a licensed wholesaler;
(d)  in the case of a small brewer, sell in accordance with Subsection (5),
beer manufactured by the brewer to:
(i)  a licensed retailer;
(ii)  a holder of a single event permit issued by the commission pursuant to
Chapter 7, Single Event Permits; and
(iii)  a holder of a temporary retail beer permit issued by the commission for
a temporary special event pursuant to Chapter 10, Part 3, Temporary Special
Event Beer Permits; and
(e)  warehouse on its premises an alcoholic beverage that it manufactures or
purchases for manufacturing purposes.
(2)  If considered necessary, the commission or department may:
(a)  require certain alterations to the plant, equipment, or premises;
(b)  require the alteration or removal of any unsuitable alcoholic beverage-
making equipment or material;
(c)  require the licensee to clean, disinfect, ventilate, or otherwise improve
the sanitary and working conditions of any plant, premises, and equipment; or
(d)  demand that all books, records, or data pertaining to the materials and
ingredients used in the manufacture of alcoholic products are available to the
commission or department upon request.
(3)  A brewery licensee may not sell the following to any person within the
state except the department or a military installation:
(a)  heavy beer; or
(b)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage.
(4)  A brewery licensee may not permit any beer, heavy beer, or flavored malt
beverage to be consumed on its premises, except under the circumstances
described in this Subsection (4).
(a)  A brewer may allow its off-duty employees to consume beer, heavy beer, or
a flavored malt beverage on its premises without charge.
(b)  A brewery licensee may allow any person who can lawfully buy the
following for wholesale or retail distribution to consume bona fide samples of
its product on the brewery premises:
(i)  beer;
(ii)  heavy beer; or
(iii)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage.
(c) (i)  A brewery licensee may operate on its manufacturing premises a retail
facility allowing consumption on premises of beer in bottles or draft as long
as food is also available.
(ii)  A retail facility located on the premises of a brewery licensee shall be
operated or supervised by the brewer.
(iii)  In operating an on-site retail facility, a brewery licensee shall
comply with the requirements of Sections 32A-10-101 and 32A-10-102.
(5) (a) A small brewer licensee located in this state, and a small brewer
located outside this state that obtains a certificate of approval from the
department to sell beer in this state under Subsection 32A-8-101(4), that
sells beer manufactured by the small brewer directly to a retailer licensee or
permittee shall own, lease, or maintain and control a warehouse facility
located in this state for the storage of all beer to be sold to any retailer
licensee or permittee.
(b)  A small brewer may not sell beer to a retailer licensee or permittee
unless the beer:
(i) is manufactured by the small brewer; and
(ii) is first placed in the small brewer's warehouse facility in this state.
(c) (i) A small brewer warehouse shall maintain complete beer importation,
inventory, tax, distribution, sales records, and other documents as the
department and State Tax Commission may require.
(ii)  The records and documents described in Subsection (5)(c)(i) are subject
to inspection by:
(A)  the department; and
(B)  the State Tax Commission.
(iii) A small brewer or person acting for the small brewer, who knowingly
forges, falsifies, alters, cancels, destroys, conceals, or removes a record or
document required to be made, maintained, or preserved by this title or the
rules of the commission, or State Tax Commission for the purpose of deceiving
the commission, department, State Tax Commission, or any of their officials or
employees, is subject to:
(A)  the immediate suspension or revocation of:
(I)  the brewery license; or
(II)  the certificate of approval; and
(B)  possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.
