32A-8-502 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Application and renewal requirements.

(1)  An individual resident, partnership, corporation, or limited liability company seeking a local industry representative license under this chapter shall file a written application with the department, in a form prescribed by the department. The application shall be accompanied by:

(a)  a nonrefundable $50 application fee;

(b)  an initial license fee of $100, which is refundable if a license is not granted;

(c)  verification that the applicant is:

(i)  a resident of Utah;

(ii)  a Utah partnership;

(iii)  a Utah corporation; or

(iv)  a Utah limited liability company;

(d)  an affidavit stating the name and address of all manufacturers, suppliers, and importers the applicant will represent;

(e)  a signed consent form stating that the local industry representative will permit any authorized representative of the commission, department, or any law enforcement officer the right to enter, during normal business hours, the specific premises where the representative conducts business;

(f)  in the case of an applicant that is a partnership, corporation, or limited liability company, proper verification evidencing that the person or persons signing the application are authorized to so act on behalf of the partnership, corporation, or a limited liability company; and

(g)  any other information the commission or department may require.

(2) (a)  All local industry representative licenses expire on January 1 of each year.

(b)  Licensees desiring to renew their license shall submit a renewal fee of $100 and a completed renewal application to the department no later than November 30.

(c)  Failure to meet the renewal requirements shall result in an automatic forfeiture of the license effective on the date the existing license expires.

(d)  Renewal applications shall be in a form as prescribed by the department, but shall require the licensee to file an affidavit stating the name and address of all manufacturers, suppliers, and importers the licensee currently represents.

(3)  A licensed local industry representative may represent more than one manufacturer, supplier, or importer without paying additional license fees.

(4)  In order to ensure compliance with Subsection 32A-8-505(8), the commission may suspend or revoke a local representative license if a local industry representative licensee does not immediately notify the department of any change in:

(a)  ownership of the business;

(b)  for a corporate owner, the:

(i)  corporate officers or directors; or

(ii)  shareholders holding at least 20% of the total issued and outstanding stock of the corporation; or

(c)  for a limited liability company:

(i)  managers; or

(ii)  members owning at least 20% of the limited liability company.

