32A-8-505 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Operational restrictions.
(1) (a)  A local industry representative licensee, employee or agent of the
licensee, or employee or agent of a manufacturer, supplier, or importer who is
conducting business in the state, shall abide by the conditions and
requirements set forth in this section.
(b)  If a person listed in Subsection (1)(a) knowingly violates or fails to
comply with the conditions and requirements set forth in this section:
(i) the violation or failure to comply may result in:
(A)  a suspension or revocation of the license; or
(B)  other disciplinary action taken against individual employees or agents of
the licensee; and
(ii)  the commission may order the removal of the manufacturer's, supplier's,
or importer's products from the department's sales list and a suspension of
the department's purchase of those products for a period determined by the
commission if the manufacturer, supplier, or importer:
(A)  directly committed the violation; or
(B)  solicited, requested, commanded, encouraged, or intentionally aided
another to engage in the violation.
(2)  A local industry representative licensee, employee or agent of the
licensee, or employee or agent of a manufacturer, supplier, or importer who is
conducting business in the state:
(a)  only to the extent authorized by Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses, may:
(i)  assist the department in:
(A)  ordering, shipping, and delivering merchandise;
(B)  providing new product notification;
(C)  obtaining listing and delisting information;
(D)  receiving price quotations;
(E)  providing product sales analysis;
(F)  conducting shelf management; and
(G)  conducting educational seminars; and
(ii)  for the purpose of acquiring new listings:
(A)  solicit orders from the department; and
(B)  submit to the department price lists and samples of the products of the
manufacturer, supplier, or importer;
(b)  may not sell any liquor within the state except to the department and
military installations including:
(i)  wine;
(ii)  heavy beer; or
(iii)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage;
(c)  may not ship or transport, or cause to be shipped or transported, into
this state or from one place to another within this state any liquor
including:
(i)  wine;
(ii)  heavy beer; or
(iii)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage;
(d)  may not sell or furnish any liquor to any person within this state other
than to the department and military installations including:
(i)  wine;
(ii)  heavy beer; or
(iii)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage;
(e)  except as otherwise provided, may not advertise products it represents in
violation of this title or any other federal or state law;
(f)  shall comply with all trade practices provided in Chapter 12, Criminal
Offenses; and
(g)  may only provide samples of products of the manufacturer, supplier, or
importer for tasting and sampling purposes as provided in Section 32A-12-603
by the department.
(3) (a)  A local industry representative licensee shall maintain on file with
the department a current accounts list of the names and addresses of all
manufacturers, suppliers, and importers the licensee represents.
(b)  The licensee shall notify the department in writing of any changes to the
accounts listed within 14 days from the date the licensee either acquired or
lost the account of a particular manufacturer, supplier, or importer.
(4)  A local industry representative licensee shall maintain accounting and
other records and documents as the department may require for at least three
years.
(5) A local industry representative licensee or person acting for the
licensee, who knowingly forges, falsifies, alters, cancels, destroys,
conceals, or removes the entries in any of the books of account or other
documents of the licensee required to be made, maintained, or preserved by
this title or the rules of the commission for the purpose of deceiving the
commission or the department, or any of their officials or employees, is
subject to:
(a)  the immediate suspension or revocation of the industry representative's
license; and
(b)  possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.
(6)  A local industry representative licensee may, for the purpose of becoming
educated as to the quality and characteristics of a liquor, wine, or heavy
beer product which the licensee represents, taste and analyze industry
representative samples under the conditions listed in this Subsection (6).
(a)  The licensee may not receive more than two industry representative
samples of a particular type, vintage, and production lot of a particular
branded product within a consecutive 120-day period.
(b) (i) A sample of liquor may not exceed 1 liter.
(ii) Notwithstanding Subsection (6)(b)(i), a sample of the following may not
exceed 1.5 liters unless that exact product is only commercially packaged in a
larger size, not to exceed 5 liters:
(A)  wine;
(B)  heavy beer; or
(C)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage.
(c) An industry representative sample may only be of a product not presently
listed on the department's sales list.
(d) (i) An industry representative sample shall be shipped:
(A)  prepaid by the manufacturer, supplier, or importer;
(B)  by common carrier and not via United States mail; and
(C)  directly to the department's central administrative warehouse office.
(ii) An industry representative sample may not be shipped to any other
location within the state.
(e) An industry representative sample shall be accompanied by a letter from
the manufacturer, supplier, or importer:
(i)  clearly identifying the product as an "industry representative sample";
and
(ii)  clearly stating:
(A)  the FOB case price of the product; and
(B)  the name of the local industry representative for who it is intended.
(f)  The department shall assess a reasonable handling, labeling, and storage
fee for each industry representative sample received.
(g)  The department shall affix to a bottle or container a label clearly
identifying the product as an "industry representative sample."
(h)  The department shall:
(i)  account for and record each industry representative sample received;
(ii)  account for the sample's disposition; and
(iii)  maintain a record of the sample and its disposition for a two-year
period.
(i) An industry representative sample may not leave the premises of the
department's central administrative warehouse office.
(j) A licensed industry representative and the industry representative's
employees and agents may, at regularly scheduled days and times established by
the department, taste and analyze one or more industry representative samples
on the premises of the department's central administrative warehouse office.
(k)  Any unused contents of an opened product remaining after the product is
sampled shall be destroyed by the department under controlled and audited
conditions established by the department.
(l) An industry representative sample that is not tasted within 30 days of
receipt by the department shall be disposed of at the discretion of the
department in one of the following ways:
(i)  contents destroyed under controlled and audited conditions established by
the department; or
(ii)  added to the inventory of the department for sale to the public.
(7)  An employee or agent of a local industry representative licensee may not
be:
(a)  the holder of any retail license issued under this title that sells:
(i)  spirituous liquor;
(ii)  wine;
(iii)  heavy beer; or
(iv)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage;
(b)  an employee or agent of any retail licensee issued under this title that
sells:
(i)  spirituous liquor;
(ii)  wine;
(iii)  heavy beer; or
(iv)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage; or
(c)  a minor.
(8) (a)  A local representative licensee may not sell, transfer, assign,
exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the license to any
other person, whether for monetary gain or not.
(b)  A local industry representative license has no monetary value for the
purpose of any type of disposition.
