61-2c-103.   Powers and duties of the division.
(1)  The division shall administer this chapter.
(2)  In addition to a power or duty expressly provided in this chapter, the
division may:
(a)  receive and act on a complaint including:
(i)  taking action designed to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter;
or
(ii)  commencing an administrative or judicial proceeding on the division's
own initiative;
(b)  establish one or more programs for the education of consumers with
respect to residential mortgage loans;
(c) (i)  make one or more studies appropriate to effectuate the purposes and
policies of this chapter; and
(ii)  make the results of the studies described in Subsection (2)(c)(i)
available to the public;
(d)  visit and investigate a person licensed under this chapter, regardless of
whether the person is located in Utah; and
(e)  employ one or more necessary hearing examiners, investigators, clerks,
and other employees and agents.
(3)  The division shall make rules for the administration of this chapter in
accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act,
including:
(a)  licensure procedures for:
(i)  a person required by this chapter to obtain a license with the division;
and
(ii)  the establishment of a branch office by an entity;
(b)  proper handling of monies received by a licensee;
(c)  record-keeping requirements by a licensee, including proper disposal of a
record;
(d)  certification procedures for certifying an education provider; and
(e)  standards of conduct for a licensee or certified education provider.
(4)  The division may by rule made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, require as a condition of maintaining a
license or certification under this chapter that a person comply with a
requirement of the nationwide database if:
(a)  required for uniformity amongst states; and
(b)  not inconsistent with this chapter.
(5)  The division shall by rule made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, provide a process under which an
individual may challenge information contained in the nationwide database.
(6)  The division may make available to the public a list of the names and
mailing addresses of licensees:
(a)  either directly or through a third party; and
(b)  at a reasonable cost.
(7)  The division shall annually:
(a)  review the requirements related to the nationwide database imposed by
federal law or the nationwide database on:
(i)  the division;
(ii)  a licensee under this chapter;
(iii)  a certified education provider; or
(iv)  an approved examination provider; and
(b)  after the review required by Subsection (7)(a):
(i)  report to the Business and Labor Interim Committee the impact of the
requirements on the implementation by the division of this chapter; and
(ii)  recommend legislation, if any, to the Business and Labor Interim
Committee related to how the division should coordinate with the nationwide
database.
(8)  The division may enter into a relationship or contract with the
nationwide database or another entity designated by the nationwide database to
do the following related to a licensee or other person subject to this
chapter:
(a)  collect or maintain a record; and
(b)  process a transaction fee or other fee.
(9)  The division shall regularly report the following to the nationwide
database:
(a)  a violation of this chapter;
(b)  disciplinary action under this chapter; and
(c)  other information relevant to this chapter.
