61-2c-201 (Superseded 01/01/10).   Licensure required of individuals and
entities engaged in the business of residential mortgage loans -- Mortgage
officer -- Principal lending manager.
(1)  Unless exempt from this chapter under Section 61-2c-105, an individual or
entity may not transact the business of residential mortgage loans, as defined
in Section 61-2c-102, without obtaining a license under this chapter.
(2)  For purposes of this chapter, an individual or entity transacts business
in this state if:
(a) (i)  the individual or entity engages in an act that constitutes the
business of residential mortgage loans; and
(ii) (A)  the act described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) is directed to or received
in this state; and
(B)  the real property that is the subject of the act described in Subsection
(2)(a)(i) is located in this state; or
(b)  a representation is made by the individual or entity that the individual
or entity transacts the business of residential mortgage loans in this state.
(3)  An individual who has an ownership interest in an entity required to be
licensed under this chapter is not required to obtain an individual license
under this chapter unless the individual transacts the business of residential
mortgage loans.
(4)  Unless otherwise exempted under this chapter, licensure under this
chapter is required of both:
(a)  the individual who directly transacts the business of residential
mortgage loans; and
(b)  if the individual transacts business as an employee or agent of an entity
or individual, the entity or individual for whom the employee or agent
transacts the business of residential mortgage loans.
(5) (a)  An individual licensed under this chapter may not engage in the
business of residential mortgage loans on behalf of more than one entity at
the same time.
(b)  This Subsection (5) does not restrict the number of:
(i)  different lenders an individual or entity may use as a funding source for
residential mortgage loans; or
(ii)  entities in which an individual may have an ownership interest,
regardless of whether the entities are:
(A)  licensed under this chapter; or
(B)  exempt under Section 61-2c-105.
(6)  An individual licensed under this chapter may not transact the business
of residential mortgage loans for the following at the same time:
(a)  an entity licensed under this chapter; and
(b)  an entity that is exempt from licensure under Section 61-2c-105.
(7)  A mortgage officer may not receive consideration for transacting the
business of residential mortgage loans from any person or entity except the
principal lending manager with whom the mortgage officer is licensed.
(8)  A mortgage officer shall conduct all business of residential mortgage
loans:
(a)  through the principal lending manager with which the individual is
licensed; and
(b)  in the business name under which the principal lending manager is
authorized by the division to do business.
(9) (a) (i)  This Subsection (9)(a) does not apply to an individual who
transacts the business of residential mortgage loans as an employee or agent
of another individual or entity.
(ii)  If an entity that is authorized by this chapter to transact the business
of residential mortgage loans transacts the business of residential mortgage
loans under an assumed business name, the entity shall:
(A)  register the assumed name with the division; and
(B)  furnish the division proof that the assumed business name has been filed
with the Division of Corporations and Commercial Code pursuant to Title 42,
Chapter 2, Conducting Business Under Assumed Name.
(b)  The division may charge a fee established in accordance with Section
63J-1-504 for registering an assumed name pursuant to this Subsection (9).
(10)  A licensee whose license is in inactive status may not transact the
business of residential mortgage loans.
