61-2c-202 (Superseded 01/01/10).   Licensure procedures.
(1)  To apply for licensure under this chapter an applicant shall:
(a)  submit to the division a licensure statement that:
(i)  lists any name under which the individual or entity will transact
business in this state;
(ii)  lists the address of the principal business location of the applicant;
(iii)  if the applicant is an entity:
(A)  lists the principal lending manager of the entity; and
(B)  contains the signature of the principal lending manager;
(iv)  demonstrates that the applicant meets the qualifications listed in
Section 61-2c-203;
(v)  if the applicant is an entity, lists:
(A)  all jurisdictions in which the entity is registered, licensed, or
otherwise regulated in the business of residential mortgage loans; and
(B)  the history of any disciplinary action or adverse administrative action
taken against the entity by any regulatory agency within the ten years
preceding the application; and
(vi)  includes any information required by the division by rule;
(b)  pay to the division:
(i)  an application fee established by the division in accordance with Section
63J-1-504; and
(ii)  the reasonable expenses incurred in processing the application for
licensure, including the costs incurred by the division under Subsection (4);
and
(c)  comply with Subsection (4).
        (2) (a)  The division shall issue a license to an applicant if the
division, with the concurrence of the commission, finds that the applicant:
(i)  meets the qualifications of Section 61-2c-203; and
(ii)  complies with this section.
(b)  The commission may delegate to the division the authority to:
(i)  review a class or category of application for an initial or renewed
license;
(ii)  determine whether an applicant meets the licensing criteria in Section
61-2c-203;
(iii)  conduct a necessary hearing on an application; and
(iv)  approve or deny a license application without concurrence by the
commission.
(c)  If the commission delegates to the division the authority to approve or
deny an application without concurrence by the commission and the division
denies an application for licensure, the applicant who is denied licensure may
petition the commission for review of the denial.
(d)  An applicant who is denied licensure under Subsection (2)(b) may seek
agency review by the executive director only after the commission reviews the
division's denial of the applicant's application.
(3)  Subject to Subsection (2)(d) and in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 4,
Administrative Procedures Act, an applicant who is denied licensure under this
chapter may submit a request for agency review to the executive director
within 30 days following the day on which the commission order denying the
licensure is issued.
(4) (a)  An individual applying for a license under this chapter shall:
(i)  submit a fingerprint card in a form acceptable to the division at the
time the licensure statement is filed;
(ii)  consent to a criminal background check by:
(A)  the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification; and
(B)  the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
(iii)  provide proof using a method approved by the division of having
successfully completed approved prelicensing education required by the
commission under Section 61-2c-104:
(A)  before taking the examination required by Subsection (4)(a)(iv); and
(B)  in the number of hours, not to exceed 90 hours, required by rule made by
the division in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act; and
(iv)  provide proof using a method approved by the division of having
successfully passed an examination approved by the commission under Section
61-2c-104.
(b)  The division shall request the Department of Public Safety to complete a
Federal Bureau of Investigation criminal background check for an applicant
through a national criminal history system.
(c)  The applicant shall pay the cost of:
(i)  the fingerprinting required by this section; and
(ii)  the criminal background check required by this section.
(d) (i)  A license under this chapter is conditional pending completion of the
criminal background check required by this Subsection (4).
(ii)  If a criminal background check discloses that an applicant fails to
accurately disclose a criminal history, the license shall be immediately and
automatically revoked.
(iii)  An individual or entity whose conditional license is revoked under
Subsection (4)(d)(ii) may appeal the revocation in a hearing conducted by the
commission:
(A)  after the revocation; and
(B)  in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(iv)  The commission may delegate to the division or an administrative law
judge the authority to conduct a hearing described in Subsection (4)(d)(iii).
(v)  Relief from a revocation may be granted only if:
(A)  the criminal history upon which the division based the revocation:
(I)  did not occur; or
(II)  is the criminal history of another person;
(B) (I)  the revocation is based on a failure to accurately disclose a
criminal history; and
(II)  the applicant had a reasonable good faith belief at the time of
application that there was no criminal history to be disclosed; or
(C)  the division fails to follow the prescribed procedure for the revocation.
(e)  If a license is revoked or a revocation is upheld after a hearing
described in Subsection (4)(d)(iii), the person may not apply for a new
license for a period of 12 months after the day on which the license is
revoked.
(f)  The funds paid by an applicant for the cost of the criminal background
check shall be nonlapsing.
(g)  The commission may delegate to the division the authority to make a
decision on whether relief from a revocation should be granted.
