61-2c-204.1.   Education providers -- Education requirements -- Examination
requirements.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Approved continuing education course" means a course of continuing
education that is approved by the nationwide database.
(b)  "Approved prelicensing education course" means a course of prelicensing
education that is approved by the nationwide database.
(2) (a)  A person may not provide prelicensing education or continuing
education if that person is not certified by the division under this chapter.
(b)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the division shall make rules establishing:
(i)  certification criteria and procedures to become a certified education
provider; and
(ii)  standards of conduct for a certified education provider.
(c)  In accordance with the rules described in Subsection (2)(b), the division
shall certify a person to provide one or more of the following:
(i)  prelicensing education; or
(ii)  continuing education.
(d)  The division shall make available to the public a list of the names and
addresses of certified education providers.
(e)  In certifying an education provider, the division by rule may:
(i)  distinguish between an individual instructor and an entity that provides
education; or
(ii)  approve prelicensing education or continuing education courses.
(3) (a)  The division may not:
(i)  license an individual under this chapter as a mortgage officer who has
not completed the prelicensing education required by this section:
(A)  before taking the licensing examination required by Subsection (4); and
(B)  in the number of hours, not to exceed 90 hours, required by rule made by
the division in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act, except that the division shall require that a person who will
engage in an activity as a loan originator complete at least 20 hours of
approved prelicensing education courses that include at least:
(I)  three hours of federal law and regulation;
(II)  three hours of ethics that includes instruction on fraud, consumer
protection, and fair lending issues; and
(III)  two hours of training related to lending standards for the
nontraditional mortgage product marketplace;
(ii)  subject to Subsection (6), renew a license of an individual who has not
completed the continuing education required by this section and Section
61-2c-205; or
(iii)  the division may not license an individual under this chapter as a
principal lending manager who has not completed the prelicensing education
required by Section 61-2c-206 before taking the licensing examination required
by Section 61-2c-206.
(b)  Subject to Subsection (3)(a) and with the concurrence of the division,
the commission shall determine:
(i)  except as provided in Subsection 61-2c-206(1)(c), the appropriate number
of hours of prelicensing education required to obtain a license;
(ii)  the subject matters of the prelicensing education required under this
section and Section 61-2c-206, including online education or distance learning
options;
(iii)  the appropriate number of hours of continuing education required to
renew a license, except that at a minimum the continuing education required
for a person who engages in an activity as a loan originator shall include at
least eight hours annually of approved continuing education courses that
include at least:
(A)  three hours of federal law and regulations;
(B)  two hours of ethics, that include instruction on fraud, consumer
protection, and fair lending issues; and
(C)  two hours of training related to lending standards for the nontraditional
mortgage product marketplace; and
(iv)  the subject matter of courses the division may accept for continuing
education purposes.
(c)  The commission may appoint a committee to make recommendations to the
commission concerning approval of prelicensing education and continuing
education courses, except that the commission shall appoint at least one
member to the committee to represent each association that represents a
significant number of individuals licensed under this chapter.
(d)  The division may by rule made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, provide for the calculation of continuing
education credits, except that the rules shall be consistent with 12 U.S.C.
Sec. 5105.
(4) (a)  The division may not license an individual under this chapter unless
that individual first passes a licensing examination administered by an
approved examination provider.
(b)  The commission, with the concurrence of the division, shall determine the
requirements for:
(i)  a licensing examination that at least:
(A)  includes the qualified written test developed by the nationwide database;
and
(B)  tests knowledge of the:
(I)  fundamentals of the English language;
(II)  arithmetic;
(III)  provisions of this chapter;
(IV)  rules adopted under this chapter;
(V)  basic residential mortgage principles and practices; and
(VI)  any other aspect of Utah law the commission determines is appropriate;
and
(ii)  a licensing examination required under Section 61-2c-206 that:
(A)  includes the qualified written test developed by the nationwide database;
and
(B)  tests knowledge of the:
(I)  advanced residential mortgage principles and practices; and
(II)  other aspects of Utah law the commission, with the concurrence of the
division, determines appropriate.
(c)  An individual who will engage in an activity as a loan originator, is not
considered to have passed a licensing examination if that individual has not
met the minimum competence requirements of 12 U.S.C. Sec. 5104(d)(3).
(5)  When reasonably practicable, the commission and the division shall make
the licensing examination, prelicensing education, and continuing education
requirements described in this section available electronically through one or
more distance education methods approved by the commission and division.
(6) (a)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act, the commission, with the concurrence of the division, shall
make rules establishing procedures under which a licensee may be exempted from
continuing education requirements:
(i)  for a period not to exceed four years; and
(ii)  upon a finding of reasonable cause.
(b)  An individual who engages in an activity as a loan originator may not
under this Subsection (6) be exempted from the eight hours of continuing
education required under Subsection (3)(b)(iii) for an individual who engages
in an activity as a loan originator.
