61-2c-403 (Superseded 01/01/10).   Cease and desist orders.
(1) (a)  The director may issue and serve by certified mail, or by personal
service, on an individual or entity an order to cease and desist from an act
if:
(i)  the director has reason to believe that the individual or entity has been
engaged, is engaging in, or is about to engage in the act constituting a
violation of this chapter; and
(ii)  it appears to the director that it would be in the public interest to
stop the act.
(b)  Within ten days after service of the order, the party named in the order
may request a hearing to be held in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 4,
Administrative Procedures Act.
(c)  Pending a hearing requested under Subsection (1)(b), a cease and desist
order shall remain in effect.
(2) (a)  After the hearing described in Subsection (1), if the director finds
that an act of the individual or entity violates this chapter, the director:
(i)  shall issue an order making the cease and desist order permanent; and
(ii)  may impose another disciplinary action under Section 61-2c-402.
(b) (i)  The director may file suit in the name of the division to enjoin and
restrain an individual or entity on whom an order is served under this section
from violating this chapter if:
(A) (I)  the individual or entity does not request a hearing under Subsection
(1); or
(II)  a permanent cease and desist order is issued against the individual or
entity following a hearing or stipulation; and
(B) (I)  the individual or entity fails to cease the act; or
(II)  after discontinuing the act, the individual or entity again commences
the act.
(ii)  The suit described in Subsection (2)(b)(i) shall be filed in the
district court in the county:
(A)  in which the act occurs;
(B)  where the individual resides; or
(C)  where the individual or entity carries on business.
(3)  The cease and desist order issued under this section may not interfere
with or prevent the prosecution of a remedy or action enforcement under this
chapter.
(4)  An individual who violates a cease and desist order issued under this
section is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.
