4-16-2.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Advertisement" means any representation made relative to seeds, plants, bulbs, or ground stock other than those on the label of a seed container, disseminated in any manner.

(2)  "Agricultural seeds" mean seeds of grass, forage plants, cereal crops, fiber crops, sugar beets, seed potatoes, or any other kinds of seed or mixtures of seed commonly known within this state as agricultural or field seeds.

(3)  "Flower seeds" mean seeds of herbaceous plants grown for their blooms, ornamental foliage, or other ornamental plants commonly known and sold under the name of flower seeds in this state.

(4)  "Foundation seed," "registered seed," or "certified seed" means seed that is produced and labeled in accordance with procedures officially recognized by a seed certifying agency approved and accredited in this state.

(5) (a)  "Hybrid" means the first generation seed of a cross produced by controlling pollination and by combining:

(i)  two or more inbred lines;

(ii)  one inbred or a single cross with an open-pollinated variety; or

(iii)  two varieties or species, except open-pollinated varieties of corn, Zea mays.

(b)  The second generation and subsequent generations from the crosses referred to in Subsection (5)(a) are not to be regarded as hybrids.

(c)  Hybrid designations shall be treated as variety names.

(6)  "Kind" means one or more related species or subspecies of seed which singly or collectively is known by one name, for example, corn, oats, alfalfa, and timothy.

(7) (a)  "Label" means any written, printed, or graphic representation accompanying and pertaining to any seeds, plants, bulbs, or ground stock whether in bulk or in containers.

(b)  "Label" includes representations on invoices, bills, and letterheads.

(8)  "Lot" means a definite quantity of seed identified by a number or other mark, every part or bag of which is uniform within recognized tolerances.

(9)  "Noxious-weed seeds" mean weed seeds declared noxious by the commissioner.

(10)  "Pure seed," "germination," or other terms in common use for testing seeds for purposes of labeling shall have ascribed to them the meaning set forth for such terms in the most recent edition of "Rules for Seed Testing" published by the Association of Official Seed Analysts.

(11)  "Seeds for sprouting" means seeds sold for sprouting for salad or culinary purposes.

(12)  "Sowing" means the placement of agricultural seeds, vegetable seeds, flower seeds, tree and shrub seeds, or seeds for sprouting in a selected environment for the purpose of obtaining plant growth.

(13)  "Treated" means seed that has received an application of a substance to reduce, control, or repel certain disease organisms, fungi, insects or other pests which may attack the seed or its seedlings, or has received some other treatment to improve its planting value.

(14)  "Tree and shrub seeds" mean seeds of woody plants commonly known and sold under the name of tree and shrub seeds in this state.

(15)  "Variety" means a subdivision of a kind characterized by growth, yield, plant, fruit, seed, or other characteristic, which differentiate it from other plants of the same kind.

(16)  "Vegetable seeds" mean seeds of crops grown in gardens or on truck farms that are generally known and sold under the name of vegetable seeds, plants, bulbs, and ground stocks in this state.

(17)  "Weed seeds" mean seeds of any plant generally recognized as a weed within this state.



Amended by Chapter 324, 2010 General Session

