54-17-802.   Contracts for the purchase of electricity from a renewable energy facility.

(1)  Within a reasonable time after receiving a request from a contract customer and subject to reasonable credit requirements, a qualified utility shall enter into a renewable energy contract with the requesting contract customer to supply some or all of the contract customer's electric service from one or more renewable energy facilities selected by the contract customer.

(2)  Subject to a contract customer agreeing to pay the qualified utility for all incremental costs associated with metering facilities, communication facilities, and administration, a renewable energy contract may provide for electricity to be delivered to a contract customer:

(a)  from one renewable energy facility to a contract customer's single metered delivery location;

(b)  from multiple renewable energy facilities to a contract customer's single metered delivery location; or

(c)  from one or more renewable energy facilities to a single contract customer's multiple metered delivery locations.

(3) (a)  A single contract customer may aggregate multiple metered delivery locations to satisfy the minimum megawatt limit under Subsection (4).

(b)  Multiple contract customers may not aggregate their separate metered delivery locations to satisfy the minimum megawatt limit under Subsection (4).

(4)  The amount of electricity provided to a contract customer under a renewable energy contract may not be less than 2.0 megawatts.

(5)  The amount of electricity provided in any hour to a contract customer under a renewable energy contract may not exceed the contract customer's metered kilowatt-hour load in that hour at the metered delivery locations under the contract.

(6)  A renewable energy contract that meets the requirements of Subsection (4) may provide for one or more increases in the amount of electricity to be provided under the contract even though the amount of electricity to be provided by the increase is less than the minimum amount required under Subsection (4).

(7)  The total amount of electricity to be generated by renewable energy facilities and delivered to contract customers at any one time under all renewable energy contracts may not exceed 300 megawatts, unless the commission approves in advance a higher amount.

(8)  Electricity generated by a renewable energy facility and delivered to a contract customer under a renewable energy contract may not be included in a net metering program under Chapter 15, Net Metering of Electricity.



Enacted by Chapter 182, 2012 General Session

