58-26a-102.   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:

(1)  "Accounting experience" means applying accounting and auditing skills and principles that are taught as a part of the professional education qualifying a person for licensure under this chapter and generally accepted by the profession, under the supervision of a licensed certified public accountant.

(2)  "AICPA" means the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

(3) (a)  "Attest and attestation engagement" means providing any or all of the following financial statement services:

(i)  an audit or other engagement to be performed in accordance with the Statements on Auditing Standards (SAS);

(ii)  a review of a financial statement to be performed in accordance with the Statements on Standards for Accounting and Review Services (SSARS);

(iii)  an examination of prospective financial information to be performed in accordance with the Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE); or

(iv)  an engagement to be performed in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.

(b)  The standards specified in this definition shall be adopted by reference by the division under its rulemaking authority in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, and shall be those developed for general application by recognized national accountancy organizations such as the AICPA and the PCAOB.

(4)  "Board" means the Utah Board of Accountancy created in Section 58-26a-201.

(5)  "Certified Public Accountant" or "CPA" means an individual currently licensed by this state or any other state, district, or territory of the United States of America to practice public accountancy or who has been granted a license as a certified public accountant under prior law or this chapter.

(6)  "Certified Public Accountant firm" or "CPA firm" means a qualified business entity holding a valid registration as a Certified Public Accountant firm under this chapter.

(7)  "Client" means the person who retains a licensee for the performance of one or more of the services included in the definition of the practice of public accountancy.  "Client" does not include a CPA's employer when the licensee works in a salaried or hourly rate position.

(8)  "Compilation" means providing a service to be performed in accordance with Statements on Standards for Accounting and Review Services (SSARS) that is presenting in the form of financial statements, information that is the representation of management or owners, without undertaking to express any assurance on the statements.

(9)  "Experience" means:

(a)  accounting experience; or

(b)  professional experience.

(10)  "Licensee" means the holder of a current valid license issued under this chapter.

(11)  "NASBA" means the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy.

(12)  "PCAOB" means the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.

(13)  "Practice of public accounting" means the offer to perform or the performance by a person holding himself out as a certified public accountant of one or more kinds of services involving the use of auditing or accounting skills including the issuance of reports or opinions on financial statements, performing attestation engagements, the performance of one or more kinds of advisory or consulting services, or the preparation of tax returns or the furnishing of advice on tax matters for a client.

(14)  "Peer review" means a study, appraisal, or review of one or more aspects of the professional work of a person or qualified business entity in the practice of public accountancy, by a licensee or any other qualified person in accordance with rules adopted pursuant to this chapter and who is not affiliated with the person or qualified business entity being reviewed.

(15)  "Principal place of business" means the office location designated by the licensee for purposes of substantial equivalency and licensure by endorsement.

(16)  "Professional experience" means experience lawfully obtained while licensed as a certified public accountant in another jurisdiction, recognized by rule, in the practice of public accountancy performed for a client, which includes expression of assurance or opinion.

(17)  "Qualified business entity" means a sole proprietorship, corporation, limited liability company, or partnership engaged in the practice of public accountancy.

(18)  "Qualified continuing professional education" means a formal program of education that contributes directly to the professional competence of a certified public accountant.

(19)  "Qualifying examinations" means:

(a)  the AICPA Uniform CPA Examination;

(b)  the AICPA Examination of Professional Ethics for CPAs;

(c)  the Utah Laws and Rules Examination; and

(d)  any other examination approved by the board and adopted by the division by rule in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.

(20) (a)  "Report" means:

(i)  when used with reference to financial statements, an opinion, report or other form of language that:

(A)  states or implies assurance as to the reliability of any financial statements; or

(B)  implies that the person or firm issuing it has special knowledge or competence in accounting or auditing and specifically includes compilations and reviews; such an implication of special knowledge or competence may arise from use by the issuer of the report of names or titles indicating that the person or firm is a public accountant or auditor, or from the language of the report itself; or

(ii)  any disclaimer of opinion when it is conventionally understood to imply any positive assurance as to the reliability of the financial statements referred to or language suggesting special competence on the part of the person or firm issuing such language; and it includes any other form of language that is conventionally understood to imply such assurance or such special knowledge or competence.

(b)  "Report" does not include a financial statement prepared by an unlicensed person if:

(i)  that financial statement has a cover page which includes essentially the following language: "I (we) have prepared the accompanying financial statements of (name of entity) as of (time period) for the (period) then ended.  This presentation is limited to preparing, in the form of financial statements, information that is the representation of management (owners).  I (we) have not audited or reviewed the accompanying financial statements and accordingly do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on them."; and

(ii)  the cover page and any related footnotes do not use the terms "compilation," "review," "audit," "generally accepted auditing standards," "generally accepted accounting principles," or other similar terms.

(21)  "Review of financial statements" means performing inquiry and analytical procedures which provide a reasonable basis for expressing limited assurance that there are no material modifications that should be made to the statements in order for them to be in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or, if applicable, with another comprehensive basis of accounting; and, the issuance of a report on the financial statements stating that a review was performed in accordance with the standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

(22) (a)  "Substantial equivalency" means a determination by the division in collaboration with the board or its designee that:

(i)  the education, examination, and experience requirements set forth in the statutes and administrative rules of another jurisdiction are comparable to or exceed the education, examination, and experience requirements set forth in the Uniform Accountancy Act; or

(ii)  an individual CPA's education, examination, and experience qualifications are comparable to or exceed the education, examination, and experience requirements set forth in the Uniform Accountancy Act.

(b)  In ascertaining whether an individual's qualifications are substantially equivalent as used in this chapter, the division in collaboration with the board shall take into account the qualifications without regard to the sequence in which the education, examination, and experience requirements were attained.

(23)  "Uniform Accountancy Act" means the model public accountancy legislation developed and promulgated by national accounting and regulatory associations that contains standardized definitions and regulations for the practice of public accounting as recognized by the division in collaboration with the board.

(24)  "Unlawful conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-26a-501.

(25)  "Unprofessional conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-26a-502 and as may be further defined by rule.

(26)  "Year of experience" means 2,000 hours of cumulative experience.

