4-18-4.   Conservation Commission created -- Composition -- Appointment --
Terms -- Compensation -- Attorney general to provide legal assistance.
(1)  There is created within the department the Conservation Commission to
perform the functions specified in this chapter.
(2)  The Conservation Commission shall be comprised of 16 members, including:
(a)  the director of the Extension Service at Utah State University or the
director's designee;
(b)  the president of the Utah Association of Conservation Districts or the
president's designee;
(c)  the commissioner or the commissioner's designee;
(d)  the executive director of the Department of Natural Resources or the
executive director's designee;
(e)  the executive director of the Department of Environmental Quality or the
executive director's designee;
(f)  the chair and the vice chair of the State Grazing Advisory Board created
in Section 4-20-1.5;
(g)  the president of the County Weed Supervisors Association;
(h)  seven district supervisors who provide district representation on the
commission on a multicounty basis; and
(i)  the director of the School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration
or the director's designee.
(3)  If a district supervisor is unable to attend a meeting, an alternate may
serve in the place of the district supervisor for that meeting.
(4)  The members of the commission specified in Subsection (2)(h) shall:
(a)  be recommended by the commission to the governor; and
(b)  be appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate.
(5) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (5)(b), as terms of current
commission members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or
reappointed member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (5)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of commission members are staggered so that
approximately half of the commission is appointed every two years.
(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(7)  The commissioner is chair of the commission.
(8)  Attendance of a majority of the commission members at a meeting
constitutes a quorum.
(9) (a) (i)  A member who is not a government employee may not receive
compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem
and expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at
the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  A member may decline to receive per diem and expenses for the member's
service.
(b) (i)  A state government officer and employee member who does not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from the agency the member represents for the
member's service may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance
of the member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of
Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A state government officer and employee member may decline to receive
per diem and expenses for the member's service.
(c) (i)  A higher education member who does not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that the member represents for the member's service
may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's
official duties from the committee at the rates established by the Division of
Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A higher education member may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for the member's service.
(d) (i)  A local government member who does not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that the member represents for the member's service
may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's
official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A local government member may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for the member's service.
(10)  The commission shall keep a record of its actions.
(11)  The attorney general shall provide legal services to the commission upon
request.
