53A-17a-105.   Action required for underestimated or overestimated weighted
pupil units -- Action required for underestimating or overestimating local
contributions.
(1)  If the number of weighted pupil units in a program is underestimated in
Section 53A-17a-104, the amount per pupil in that program paid under this
chapter must be reduced so that the amount paid does not exceed the estimated
amount by program.
(2)  If the number of weighted pupil units in a program is overestimated in
Section 53A-17a-104, the state superintendent of public instruction shall
either increase the amount paid in that program per weighted pupil unit or
transfer the unused amount in that program to another program included in the
minimum school program.
(3) (a)  If surplus funds are transferred to another program, the state
superintendent, if the state superintendent determines certain districts have
greater need for additional funds, may designate the districts as well as the
programs to which the transferred funds will be allocated.
(b)  Any amounts transferred under Subsection (3)(a) may be spent in addition
to the amounts listed in Section 53A-17a-104.
(4)  The limitation on the proceeds from local tax rates for operation and
maintenance programs under this chapter is subject to modification by local
school boards under Sections 53A-17a-133 and 53A-17a-134 and to special tax
rates authorized by this chapter, and shall be adjusted accordingly.
(5)  If local contributions are overestimated, the guarantee per weighted
pupil unit is reduced for all programs so the total state contribution for
operation and maintenance programs does not exceed the amount authorized in
Subsection 53A-17a-104(1).
(6) (a)  If local contributions from the basic tax rate for operation and
maintenance programs are underestimated, the excess is applied first to
support the value of the weighted pupil unit as set by the Legislature for
total weighted pupil units generated by the districts and those costs of
Social Security and retirement, transportation, and board and voted leeway
that occur as a result of the additional generated weighted pupil units,
following internal adjustments by the state superintendent as provided in this
section.
(b)  The state contribution is decreased so the total school program cost for
operation and maintenance programs does not exceed the total estimated
contributions to school districts for all programs under Subsection 53A-
17a-104(2) plus the amount of local revenue necessary to support the value of
the weighted pupil unit for weighted pupil units generated and those costs of
Social Security and retirement, transportation, and board and voted leeway
that occur as a result of the additional generated weighted pupil units.
(7)  As an exception to Section 63J-1-601, the state fiscal officer may not
close out appropriations from the Uniform School Fund at the end of a fiscal
year.
