53A-17a-111.   Weighted pupil units for programs for students with
disabilities -- District allocation.
(1)  The number of weighted pupil units for students with disabilities shall
reflect the direct cost of programs for those students conducted in accordance
with rules established by the State Board of Education in accordance with
Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(2)  Disability program monies allocated to districts are restricted and shall
be spent for the education of students with disabilities but may include
expenditures for approved programs of services conducted for certified
instructional personnel who have students with disabilities in their classes.
(3)  The State Board of Education shall establish and strictly interpret
definitions and provide standards for determining which students have
disabilities and shall assist districts in determining the services that
should be provided to students with disabilities.
(4)  Each year the board shall evaluate the standards and guidelines that
establish the identifying criteria for disability classifications to assure
strict compliance with those standards by the districts.
(5) (a)  Monies appropriated to the State Board of Education in Section 53A-
17a-104 for add-on WPUs for students with disabilities enrolled in regular
programs shall be allocated to school districts as provided in this Subsection
(5).
(b)  Beginning on July 1, 2003, the State Board of Education shall:
(i)  use a district's average number of special education add-on weighted
pupil units determined by the previous five year's average daily membership
data as a foundation for the special education add-on appropriation; and
(ii)  implement a hold harmless provision for up to three years as needed to
accomplish a phase-in period for school districts to accommodate the change in
the special education add-on WPUs foundation formula.
(c)  A district's special education add-on WPUs for the current year may not
be less than the foundation special education add-on WPUs.
(d)  Growth WPUs shall be added to the prior year special education add-on
WPUs, and growth WPUs shall be determined as follows:
(i)  The special education student growth factor is calculated by comparing
S-3 total special education ADM of two years previous to the current year to
the S-3 total special education ADM three years previous to the current year,
not to exceed the official October total district growth factor from the prior
year.
(ii)  When calculating and applying the growth factor, a district's S-3 total
special education ADM for a given year is limited to 12.18% of the district's
S-3 total student ADM for the same year.
(iii)  Growth ADMs are calculated by applying the growth factor to the S-3
total special education ADM of two years previous to the current year.
(iv)  Growth ADMs for each district are multiplied by 1.53 weighted pupil
units and added to the prior year special education add-on WPU to determine
each district's total allocation.
(6)  If monies appropriated under this chapter for programs for students with
disabilities do not meet the costs of districts for those programs, each
district shall first receive the amount generated for each student with a
disability under the basic program.
