53A-17a-113.   Weighted pupil units for career and technical education
programs -- Funding of approved programs -- Performance measures -- Qualifying
criteria.
(1) (a)  Money appropriated to the State Board of Education for approved
career and technical education programs and the comprehensive guidance
program:
(i)  shall be allocated to eligible recipients as provided in Subsections (2),
(3), (4), and (5); and
(ii)  may not be used to fund programs below the ninth grade level.
(b)  Subsection (1)(a)(ii) does not apply to the following programs:
(i)  comprehensive guidance;
(ii)  Technology-Life-Careers; and
(iii)  work-based learning programs.
(2) (a)  Weighted pupil units are computed for pupils in approved programs.
(b) (i)  The board shall fund approved programs based upon hours of membership
of 9th through 12th grade students.
(ii)  Subsection (2)(b)(i) does not apply to the following programs:
(A)  comprehensive guidance;
(B)  Technology-Life-Careers; and
(C)  work-based learning programs.
(c)  The board shall use an amount not to exceed 20% of the total
appropriation under this section to fund approved programs based on
performance measures such as placement and competency attainment defined in
standards set by the board.
(d)  Leadership organization funds shall constitute an amount not to exceed 1%
of the total appropriation under this section, and shall be distributed to
each local educational agency sponsoring career and technical education
student leadership organizations based on the agency's share of the state's
total membership in those organizations.
(e)  The board shall make the necessary calculations for distribution of the
appropriation to school districts and may revise and recommend changes
necessary for achieving equity and ease of administration.
(3) (a)  Twenty weighted pupil units shall be computed for career and
technical education administrative costs for each district, except 25 weighted
pupil units may be computed for each district that consolidates career and
technical education administrative services with one or more other districts.
(b)  Between 10 and 25 weighted pupil units shall be computed for each high
school conducting approved career and technical education programs in a
district according to standards established by the board.
(c)  Forty weighted pupil units shall be computed for each district that
operates an approved career and technical education center.
(d)  Between five and seven weighted pupil units shall be computed for each
summer career and technical education agriculture program according to
standards established by the board.
(e)  The board shall, by rule, establish qualifying criteria for districts to
receive weighted pupil units under this Subsection (3).
(4) (a)  Money remaining after the allocations made under Subsections (2) and
(3) shall be allocated using average daily membership in approved programs for
the previous year.
(b)  A district that has experienced student growth in grades 9 through 12 for
the previous year shall have the growth factor applied to the previous year's
weighted pupil units when calculating the allocation of money under this
Subsection (4).
(5)  Of the money allocated to comprehensive guidance programs pursuant to
board rules, $1,000,000 in grants shall be awarded to school districts or
charter schools that:
(a)  provide an equal amount of matching funds; and
(b)  do not supplant other funds used for comprehensive guidance programs.
(6) (a)  The board shall establish rules for the upgrading of high school
career and technical education programs.
(b)  The rules shall reflect career and technical training and actual
marketable job skills in society.
(c)  The rules shall include procedures to assist school districts to convert
existing programs which are not preparing students for the job market into
programs that will accomplish that purpose.
(7)  Programs that do not meet board standards may not be funded under this
section.
