53A-17a-121.   Appropriation for at-risk programs.
(1)  Money appropriated to the State Board of Education in Section 53A-17a-104
for at-risk programs shall be allocated to local school boards for the
following programs:
(a)  youth in custody;
(b)  homeless and disadvantaged minority students;
(c)  mathematics, engineering, and science achievement programs;
(d)  gang prevention and intervention; and
(e)  at-risk flow through.
(2)  Districts shall spend monies for these programs according to rules
established by the State Board of Education in accordance with Title 63G,
Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(3) (a)  From the amount appropriated for youth at risk programs, the board
shall allocate moneys to school districts for homeless and disadvantaged
minority students.
(b)  Each district shall receive its allocation on the basis of:
(i)  the total number of homeless students in the district;
(ii)  added to 50% of the number of disadvantaged minority students in the
district;
(iii)  multiplying the total of Subsections (3)(b)(i) and (ii) by the value of
the weighted pupil unit; and
(iv)  prorating the amount under Subsection (3)(b)(iii) to the amount in
Subsection (3)(a).
(4) (a)  From the amount appropriated for at-risk programs, the board shall
allocate monies for mathematics, engineering, and science achievement
programs, MESA programs, in the districts.
(b)  The board shall make the distribution to school districts on a
competitive basis by application under guidelines established by the board.
(5) (a)  From the amount appropriated for at-risk programs, the board shall
distribute moneys for gang prevention and intervention programs at the
district or school level.
(b)  The board shall make the distribution to school districts under
guidelines established by the board consistent with Section 53A-15-601.
(6) (a)  From the amount appropriated for at-risk programs, the board shall
distribute moneys for programs for youth in custody.
(b)  The board shall allocate these moneys to school districts which operate
programs for youth in custody in accordance with standards established by the
board.
(7)  From the amount appropriated for at-risk programs, the board shall
allocate monies based on:
(a)  a formula which takes into account prior year WPU's per district and a
district's low income population; and
(b)  a minimum base of no less than $18,600 for small school districts.
