53A-17a-144.   Contribution of state to cost of minimum school program --
Determination of amounts -- Levy on taxable property -- Disbursal --
Deficiency.
The state's contribution to the total cost of the minimum school program is
determined and distributed as follows:
(1)  The State Tax Commission shall levy an amount determined by the
Legislature on all taxable property of the state.
(a)  This amount, together with other funds provided by law, is the state's
contribution to the minimum school program.
(b)  The statewide levy is set at zero until changed by the Legislature.
(2)  During the first week in November, the State Tax Commission shall certify
to the State Board of Education the amounts designated as state aid for each
district under Section 59-2-902.
(3) (a)  The actual amounts computed under Section 59-2-902 are the state's
contribution to the minimum school program of each district.
(b)  The state board shall provide each district with a statement of the
amount of state aid.
(4)  Prior to the first day of each month, the state treasurer and the
Division of Finance, with the approval of the State Board of Education, shall
disburse 1/12 of the state's contribution to the cost of the minimum school
program to each school district.
(a)  A disbursement may not be made to a district whose payments have been
interrupted under Subsection (4)(d).
(b)  Discrepancies between the monthly disbursements and the actual cost of
the program shall be adjusted in the final settlement under Subsection (5).
(c)  If the monthly distributions overdraw the money in the Uniform School
Fund, the Division of Finance is authorized to run this fund in a deficit
position.
(d)  The state board may interrupt disbursements to a district if, in the
judgment of the board, the district is failing to comply with the minimum
school program, is operating programs that are not approved by the state
board, or has not submitted reports required by law or the state board.
(i)  Disbursements shall be resumed upon request of the state board.
(ii)  Back disbursements shall be included in the next regular disbursement,
and the amount disbursed certified to the State Division of Finance and state
treasurer by the state board.
(e)  The State Board of Education may authorize exceptions to the 1/12 per
month disbursement formula for grant funds if the board determines that a
different disbursement formula would better serve the purposes of the grant.
(5) (a)  If monies in the Uniform School Fund are insufficient to meet the
state's contribution to the minimum school program as appropriated, the amount
of the deficiency thus created shall be carried as a deficiency in the Uniform
School Fund until the next session of the Legislature, at which time the
Legislature shall appropriate funds to cover the deficiency.
(b)  If there is an operating deficit in public education Uniform School Fund
appropriations, the Legislature shall eliminate the deficit by:
(i)  budget transfers or other legal means;
(ii)  appropriating money from the Education Budget Reserve Account;
(iii)  appropriating up to 25% of the balance in the General Fund Budget
Reserve Account; or
(iv)  some combination of Subsections (5)(b)(i), (ii), and (iii).
(c)  Nothing in Subsection (5)(b) precludes the Legislature from appropriating
more than 25% of the balance in the General Fund Budget Reserve Account to
fund operating deficits in public education appropriations.
