53A-17a-150.   K-3 Reading Improvement Program.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Program" means the K-3 Reading Improvement Program.

(b)  "Program money" means:

(i)  school district revenue allocated to the program from other money available to the school district, except money provided by the state, for the purpose of receiving state funds under this section; and

(ii)  money appropriated by the Legislature to the program.

(2)  The K-3 Reading Improvement Program consists of program money and is created to supplement other school resources to achieve the state's goal of having third graders reading at or above grade level.

(3)  Subject to future budget constraints, the Legislature may annually appropriate money to the K-3 Reading Improvement Program.

(4) (a) To receive program money, a school district or charter school must submit a plan to the State Board of Education for reading proficiency improvement that incorporates the following components:

(i)  assessment;

(ii)  intervention strategies;

(iii)  professional development for classroom teachers in kindergarten through grade three;

(iv)  reading performance standards; and

(v)  specific measurable goals that include the following:

(A)  a goal for each school within a school district and each charter school based upon student learning gains as measured by benchmark assessments administered pursuant to Section 53A-1-606.6; and

(B)  a goal for each school district and charter school to increase the percentage of third grade students who read on grade level as measured by the third grade reading test administered pursuant to Section 53A-1-603.

(b)  The State Board of Education shall provide model plans which a school district or charter school may use, or the school district or charter school may develop its own plan.

(c)  Plans developed by a school district or charter school shall be approved by the State Board of Education.

(5) (a)  There is created within the K-3 Reading Achievement Program three funding programs:

(i)  the Base Level Program;

(ii)  the Guarantee Program; and

(iii)  the Low Income Students Program.

(b)  The State Board of Education may use no more than $7,500,000 from an appropriation described in Subsection (3) for computer-assisted instructional learning and assessment programs.

(6) Money appropriated to the State Board of Education for the K-3 Reading Improvement Program and not used by the State Board of Education for computer-assisted instructional learning and assessments as described in Subsection (5)(b), shall be allocated to the three funding programs as follows:

(a)  8% to the Base Level Program;

(b)  46% to the Guarantee Program; and

(c)  46% to the Low Income Students Program.

(7) (a)  To participate in the Base Level Program, a school district or charter school shall submit a reading proficiency improvement plan to the State Board of Education as provided in Subsection (4) and must receive approval of the plan from the State Board of Education.

(b) (i)  Each school district qualifying for Base Level Program funds and the qualifying elementary charter schools combined shall receive a base amount.

(ii)  The base amount for the qualifying elementary charter schools combined shall be allocated among each school in an amount proportionate to:

(A)  each existing charter school's prior year fall enrollment in grades kindergarten through grade three; and

(B)  each new charter school's estimated fall enrollment in grades kindergarten through grade three.

(8) (a)  A school district that applies for program money in excess of the Base Level Program funds shall choose to first participate in either the Guarantee Program or the Low Income Students Program.

(b)  A school district must fully participate in either the Guarantee Program or the Low Income Students Program before it may elect to either fully or partially participate in the other program.

(c)  To fully participate in the Guarantee Program, a school district shall allocate to the program money available to the school district, except money provided by the state, equal to the amount of revenue that would be generated by a tax rate of .000056.

(d)  To fully participate in the Low Income Students Program, a school district shall allocate to the program money available to the school district, except money provided by the state, equal to the amount of revenue that would be generated by a tax rate of .000065.

(e) (i)  The State Board of Education shall verify that a school district allocates the money required in accordance with Subsections (8)(c) and (d) before it distributes funds in accordance with this section.

(ii)  The State Tax Commission shall provide the State Board of Education the information the State Board of Education needs to comply with Subsection (8)(e)(i).

(9) (a) Except as provided in (9)(c), a school district that fully participates in the Guarantee Program shall receive state funds in an amount that is:

(i)  equal to the difference between $21 times the district's total WPUs and the revenue the school district is required to allocate under Subsection (8)(c) to fully participate in the Guarantee Program; and

(ii)  not less than $0.

(b) Except as provided in (9)(c), an elementary charter school shall receive under the Guarantee Program an amount equal to $21 times the school's total WPUs.

(c)  The State Board of Education may adjust the $21 guarantee amount described in Subsections (9)(a) and (b) to account for actual appropriations and money used by the State Board of Education for computer-assisted instructional learning and assessments.

(10)  The State Board of Education shall distribute Low Income Students Program funds in an amount proportionate to the number of students in each school district or charter school who qualify for free or reduced price school lunch multiplied by two.

(11)  A school district that partially participates in the Guarantee Program or Low Income Students Program shall receive program funds based on the amount of school district revenue allocated to the program as a percentage of the amount of revenue that could have been allocated if the school district had fully participated in the program.

(12) (a) A school district or charter school shall use program money for reading proficiency improvement in grades kindergarten through grade three, including:

(i)  reading assessments; and

(ii)  focused reading remediations that may include:

(A)  the use of reading specialists;

(B)  tutoring;

(C)  before or after school programs;

(D)  summer school programs; or

(E)  the use of reading software.

(b)  A school district or charter school may use program money for portable technology devices used to administer reading assessments.

(c)  Program money may not be used to supplant funds for existing programs, but may be used to augment existing programs.

(13) (a)  Each school district and charter school shall annually submit a report to the State Board of Education accounting for the expenditure of program money in accordance with its plan for reading proficiency improvement.

(b)  On or before the November meeting of the Education Interim Committee of each year, the State Board of Education shall report a summary of the reading improvement program expenditures of each school district and charter school.

(c)  If a school district or charter school uses program money in a manner that is inconsistent with Subsection (12), the school district or charter school is liable for reimbursing the State Board of Education for the amount of program money improperly used, up to the amount of program money received from the State Board of Education.

(14) (a)  The State Board of Education shall make rules to implement the program.

(b) (i)  The rules under Subsection (14)(a) shall require each school district or charter school to annually report progress in meeting school and school district goals stated in the school district's or charter school's plan for student reading proficiency.

(ii)  If a school does not meet or exceed the school's goals, the school district or charter school shall prepare a new plan which corrects deficiencies.  The new plan must be approved by the State Board of Education before the school district or charter school receives an allocation for the next year.

(15) (a)  If for three consecutive school years, a school district fails to meet its goal to increase the percentage of third grade students who read on grade level as measured by the third grade reading test administered pursuant to Section 53A-1-603, the school district shall terminate any levy imposed under Section 53A-17a-151 and may not receive money appropriated by the Legislature for the K-3 Reading Improvement Program.

(b)  If for three consecutive school years, a charter school fails to meet its goal to increase the percentage of third grade students who read on grade level as measured by the third grade reading test administered pursuant to Section 53A-1-603, the charter school may not receive money appropriated by the Legislature for the K-3 Reading Improvement Program.

(16)  The State Board of Education shall make an annual report to the Public Education Appropriations Subcommittee that:

(a)  includes information on:

(i)  student learning gains in reading for the past school year and the five-year trend;

(ii)  the percentage of third grade students reading on grade level in the past school year and the five-year trend; and

(iii)  the progress of schools and school districts in meeting goals stated in a school district's or charter school's plan for student reading proficiency; and

(b)  may include recommendations on how to increase the percentage of third grade students who read on grade level.



Amended by Chapter 342, 2011 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 359, 2011 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 371, 2011 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 372, 2011 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 372, 2011 General Session, (Coordination Clause) 

Amended by Chapter 418, 2011 General Session

