53A-17a-158.   Stipends for special educators for additional days of work.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "IEP" means an individualized education program developed pursuant to the
Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act of 2004, as amended.
(b)  "Special education teacher" means a teacher whose primary assignment is
the instruction of students with disabilities who are eligible for special
education services.
(c)  "Special educator" means a person employed by a school district, charter
school, or the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind who holds:
(i)  a license issued under Title 53A, Chapter 6, Educator Licensing and
Professional Practices Act; and
(ii)  a position as a:
(A)  special education teacher; or
(B)  speech-language pathologist.
(2)  The Legislature shall annually appropriate money for stipends to special
educators for additional days of work:
(a)  in recognition of the added duties and responsibilities assumed by
special educators to comply with federal law regulating the education of
students with disabilities and the need to attract and retain qualified
special educators; and
(b)  subject to future budget constraints.
(3) (a)  The State Board of Education shall distribute money appropriated
under this section to school districts, charter schools, and the Utah Schools
for the Deaf and the Blind for stipends for special educators in the amount of
$200 per day for up to 10 additional working days.
(b)  Money distributed under this section shall include, in addition to the
$200 per day stipend, money for the following employer-paid benefits:
(i)  retirement;
(ii)  workers' compensation;
(iii)  Social Security; and
(iv)  Medicare.
(4)  A special educator receiving a stipend shall:
(a)  work an additional day beyond the number of days contracted with the
special educator's school district or school for each daily stipend;
(b)  schedule the additional days of work before or after the school year; and
(c)  use the additional days of work to perform duties related to the IEP
process, including:
(i)  administering student assessments;
(ii)  conducting IEP meetings;
(iii)  writing IEPs;
(iv)  conferring with parents; and
(v)  maintaining records and preparing reports.
(5)  A special educator may:
(a)  elect to receive a stipend for one to 10 days of additional work; or
(b)  elect to not receive a stipend.
(6)  A person who does not hold a full-time position as a special educator is
eligible for a partial stipend equal to the percentage of a full-time special
educator position the person assumes.
