53A-17a-160.   High-ability Student Initiative Program.
(1)  The High-ability Student Initiative Program is created to provide
resources for educators to enhance the academic growth of high-ability
students.
(2)  The program shall consist of:
(a)  personnel under the direction of the State Board of Education and
superintendent of public instruction who shall direct and facilitate the
program;
(b)  a comprehensive, Internet-based resource center to provide information
about high-ability students to teachers, administrators, parents, and the
community;
(c)  professional development and professional learning communities for
teachers, including research-based tools to:
(i)  identify high-ability students;
(ii)  implement strategies to meet high-ability students' needs;
(iii)  train and mentor teachers; and
(iv)  enhance teacher collaboration and networking, including
videoconferencing equipment for classroom observation and coaching;
(d)  assistance for a teacher to obtain an endorsement for gifted and talented
education; and
(e)  an evaluation of the program.
(3) (a)  From money appropriated for the High-ability Student Initiative
Program, the State Board of Education shall establish a grant program to
encourage a licensed teacher to obtain an endorsement for gifted and talented
education.
(b)  The State Board of Education may award up to 250 grants in amounts of up
to $2,500 each.
(c)  To receive a grant, a licensed teacher shall provide matching funds in an
amount equal to 1/2 the grant amount.
(4)  From money appropriated for the High-ability Student Initiative Program,
the State Board of Education shall:
(a)  contract with an independent, qualified evaluator, selected through a
request for proposals process, to evaluate the High-ability Student Initiative
Program; and
(b)  provide up to 60 stipends in amounts of up to $1,500 each for teachers
who participate in the evaluation.
(5)  High-ability Student Initiative Program money may not be used to supplant
funds for existing programs, but may be used to augment existing programs.
(6)  Participation in the High-ability Student Initiative Program shall be:
(a)  voluntary for an individual teacher; and
(b)  voluntary for a charter school or school district.
(7)  The State Board of Education shall make an annual report during the 2009,
2010, and 2011 interims to the Education Interim Committee describing the
program's impact on high-ability students.
