53A-17a-162.    Beverley Taylor Sorenson Elementary Arts Learning Program.

(1)  The Legislature finds that a strategic placement of arts in elementary education can impact the critical thinking of students in other core subject areas, including mathematics, reading, and science.

(2)  The Beverley Taylor Sorenson Elementary Arts Learning Program is created to enhance the social, emotional, academic, and arts learning of students in kindergarten through grade six by integrating arts teaching and learning into core subject areas.

(3)  From money appropriated for the Beverley Taylor Sorenson Elementary Arts Learning Program, the State Board of Education shall, after consulting with the Utah Arts Council and receiving their recommendations:

(a)  subject to Subsection (6), establish a grant program to allow school districts and charter schools to hire 50 highly qualified, full-time arts specialists to be based at 50 schools;

(b)  provide up to $10,000 in one-time funds for each school arts specialist described under Subsection (3)(a) to purchase supplies and equipment;

(c)  establish a grant program to allow 10 school districts to hire art coordinators, provided that a qualifying school district provides matching funds in an amount equal to the grant amount; and

(d)  annually contract with an independent, qualified evaluator, selected through a request for proposals process, to evaluate the Beverley Taylor Sorenson Elementary Arts Learning Program.

(4)  Beverley Taylor Sorenson Elementary Arts Learning Program money may not be used to supplant funds for existing programs funded by the state, but shall be used to augment existing programs.

(5)  Schools that participate in the Beverley Taylor Sorenson Elementary Arts Learning Program shall partner with institutions of higher education that award elementary education degrees to obtain quality pre-service and in-service training, research, and leadership development for arts education.

(6) (a)  Beginning with the 2011-12 school year, a school district or charter school may receive a grant under Subsection (3)(a) if the school district or charter school provides matching funds for 10% of the grant amount.

(b)  A qualifying school district or charter school under Subsection (6)(a) shall increase its match amount by an additional 10% each subsequent year, until the school district or charter school provides matching funds in an amount equal to the grant amount.

(7)  Beginning with the 2011-12 school year, the State Board of Education shall make funds available for additional schools to participate in the Beverly Taylor Sorenson Elementary Arts Learning Program, corresponding to the amount of the matching funds required from schools under Subsection (6).

(8)  The State Board of Education shall, after consultation with the Utah Arts Council, make an annual report during the 2009, 2010, and 2011 interims to the Education Interim Committee describing the program's impact on students in kindergarten through grade six.



Amended by Chapter 330, 2011 General Session

