53A-17a-163.    Performance-based Compensation Pilot Program.
(1)  The Performance-based Compensation Pilot Program is created to pilot the
development and implementation of performance-based compensation plans for
elementary school classroom-related staff.
(2)  From monies appropriated by the Legislature for the Performance-based
Compensation Pilot Program, the State Board of Education shall award grants to
school districts and charter schools to develop and implement performance-
based compensation plans for elementary school classroom-related staff.
(3)  The State Board of Education shall:
(a)  solicit proposals from school districts and charter schools for the use
of grant monies to develop and implement performance-based compensation plans
for elementary school classroom-related staff; and
(b)  award grants on a competitive basis.
(4)  To receive a grant, a school district or charter school shall submit a
proposal to the State Board of Education to develop and implement a
performance-based compensation plan over a two-year period as follows:
(a)  In the first year, the school district or charter school shall develop,
administer, and evaluate performance measures.
(b)  In the second year, the school district or charter school shall
administer performance measures and compensate classroom-related staff based
on performance.
(c)  A performance-based compensation plan shall provide that:
(i)  student learning gains shall account for 40% of the maximum amount of
performance-based compensation that may be awarded to an employee;
(ii)  an employee's instructional quality or performance as measured by
classroom observations or other instruments shall account for 40% of the
maximum amount of performance-based compensation that may be awarded to an
employee; and
(iii)  the remaining 20% of the maximum amount that may be awarded to an
employee shall include a measure of parent, student, or community
satisfaction.
(d)  A proposal shall include a budget and specify the amount of grant monies
requested.
(e)  A school district's proposal may apply to one or more elementary schools
within the district.
