53A-17a-167.   Early intervention program -- Enhanced kindergarten program -- Educational technology.

(1)  The State Board of Education shall, as described in Subsection (4), distribute funds appropriated under this section for an enhanced kindergarten program described in Subsection (2), to school districts and charter schools that apply for the funds.

(2)  A school district or charter school shall use funds appropriated in this section to offer an early intervention program, delivered through an enhanced kindergarten program that:

(a)  is an academic program focused on building age-appropriate literacy and numeracy skills;

(b)  uses an evidence-based early intervention model;

(c)  is targeted to at-risk students; and

(d)  is delivered through additional hours or other means.

(3)  A school district or charter school may not require a student to participate in an enhanced kindergarten program described in Subsection (2).

(4)  The State Board of Education shall distribute funds appropriated under this section for an enhanced kindergarten program described in Subsection (2) as follows:

(a) (i)  the total allocation for charter schools shall be calculated by:

(A)  dividing the number of charter school students by the total number of students in the public education system in the prior school year; and

(B)  multiplying the resulting percentage by the total amount of available funds; and

(ii)  the amount calculated under Subsection (4)(a) shall be distributed to charter schools with the greatest need for an enhanced kindergarten program, as determined by the State Board of Education in consultation with the State Charter School Board;

(b)  each school district shall receive the amount calculated by:

(i)  multiplying the value of the weighted pupil unit by 0.45; and

(ii)  multiplying the result by 20; and

(c)  the remaining funds, after the allocations described in Subsections (4)(a) and (4)(b) are made, shall be distributed to applicant school districts by:

(i)  determining the number of students eligible to receive free lunch in the prior school year for each school district; and

(ii)  prorating the remaining funds based on the number of students eligible to receive free lunch in each district.

(5)  In addition to an enhanced kindergarten program described in Subsection (2), the early intervention program includes a component to address early intervention through the use of an interactive computer software program.

(6) (a)  Subject to legislative appropriations, by September 1 of each year, the State Board of Education shall select one or more technology providers, through a request for proposals process, to provide an interactive computer software program for literacy instruction and assessments for students in kindergarten through grade 3.

(b)  The State Board of Education shall distribute licenses for an interactive computer software program described in Subsection (6)(a) to school districts and charter schools that apply for the licenses.

(c)  A school district or charter school that received a license described in Subsection (6)(b) during the prior year shall be given first priority to receive an equivalent license during the current year.

(d)  Licenses distributed to school districts and charter schools in addition to the licenses described in Subsection (6)(c) shall be distributed through a competitive process.

(7)  On or before November 1, 2013, and every year thereafter, the State Board of Education shall report final testing data regarding an interactive computer software program described in Subsection (6), including student learning gains as a result of the interactive computer software program, to:

(a)  the Education Interim Committee; and

(b)  the governor.



Amended by Chapter 466, 2013 General Session

