53A-17a-169.   Student Leadership Skills Development Pilot Program.

(1)  For purposes of this section:

(a)  "Board" means the State Board of Education.

(b)  "Pilot program" means the Student Leadership Skills Development Pilot Program created in Subsection (2).

(2)  There is created the Student Leadership Skills Development Pilot Program to develop student behaviors and skills that enhance a school's learning environment and are vital for success in a career, including:

(a)  communication skills;

(b)  teamwork skills;

(c)  interpersonal skills;

(d)  initiative and self-motivation;

(e)  goal setting skills;

(f)  problem solving skills; and

(g)  creativity.

(3) (a)  The board shall administer the program and award grants to elementary schools that apply for a grant on a competitive basis.

(b)  A grant awarded to a school under Subsection (3)(a) shall be up to $10,000 per school.

(4)  An elementary school may participate in the pilot program established under this section in accordance with rules of the State Board of Education.

(5)  In selecting elementary schools to participate in the pilot program, the board shall:

(a)  require a school to provide matching funds in an amount equal to the grant the school receives from the board;

(b)  require a school to participate in the pilot program for two years; and

(c)  give preference to Title I schools or schools in need of academic improvement.

(6)  A school that receives a grant described in Subsection (3) shall provide the following to the board after the first school year of implementation of the program:

(a)  evidence that the grant money was used for the purpose of purchasing or developing the school's own student leadership skills development program; and

(b)  a report on the effectiveness and impact of the school's student leadership skills development program on student behavior and academic results.

(7) (a)  The board shall make a report on the pilot program to the Education Interim Committee by the committee's October 2015 meeting.

(b)  The report shall include an evaluation of the pilot program's success in enhancing a school's learning environment and improving academic achievement.



Enacted by Chapter 434, 2013 General Session

