46-4-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Agreement" means the bargain of the parties in fact, as found in their
language or inferred from other circumstances and from rules, regulations, and
procedures given the effect of agreements under laws otherwise applicable to a
particular transaction.
(2)  "Automated transaction" means a transaction conducted or performed, in
whole or in part, by electronic means or electronic records, in which the acts
or records of one or both parties are not reviewed by an individual in the
ordinary course in forming a contract, performing under an existing contract,
or fulfilling an obligation required by the transaction.
(3)  "Computer program" means a set of statements or instructions to be used
directly or indirectly in an information processing system in order to bring
about a certain result.
(4)  "Contract" means the total legal obligation resulting from the parties'
agreement as affected by this chapter and other applicable law.
(5)  "Electronic" means relating to technology having electrical, digital,
magnetic, wireless, optical, electromagnetic, or similar capabilities.
(6)  "Electronic agent" means a computer program or an electronic or other
automated means used independently to initiate an action or respond to
electronic records or performances in whole or in part, without review or
action by an individual.
(7)  "Electronic record" means a record created, generated, sent,
communicated, received, or stored by electronic means.
(8)  "Electronic signature" means an electronic sound, symbol, or process
attached to or logically associated with a record and executed or adopted by a
person with the intent to sign the record.
(9)  "Governmental agency" means an executive, legislative, or judicial
agency, department, board, commission, authority, institution, or
instrumentality of the federal government or of a state or of a county,
municipality, or other political subdivision of a state.
(10)  "Information" means data, text, images, sounds, codes, computer
programs, software, databases, or the like.
(11)  "Information processing system" means an electronic system for creating,
generating, sending, receiving, storing, displaying, or processing
information.
(12)  "Person" means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture,
governmental agency, public corporation, or any other legal or commercial
entity.
(13)  "Record" means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or
that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in
perceivable form.
(14) (a)  "Security procedure" means a procedure employed for the purpose of
verifying that an electronic signature, record, or performance is that of a
specific person or for detecting changes or errors in the information in an
electronic record.
(b)  "Security procedure" includes a procedure that requires the use of
algorithms or other codes, identifying words or numbers, encryption, or
callback or other acknowledgment procedures.
(15) (a)  "State" means a state of the United States, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any territory or
insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(b)  "State" includes an Indian tribe or band, or Alaskan native village, that
is recognized by federal law or formally acknowledged by a state.
(16)  "Transaction" means an action or set of actions occurring between two or
more persons relating to the conduct of business, commercial, or governmental
affairs.
