36-12-5.   Duties of interim committees.

(1)  Except as otherwise provided by law, each interim committee shall:

(a)  receive study assignments by resolution from the Legislature;

(b)  receive study assignments from the Legislative Management Committee, created under Section 36-12-6;

(c)  place matters on its study agenda after requesting approval of the study from the Legislative Management Committee, which request, if not disapproved by the Legislative Management Committee within 30 days of receipt of the request, the interim committee shall consider it approved and may proceed with the requested study;

(d)  request research reports from the professional legislative staff pertaining to the committee's agenda of study;

(e)  investigate and study possibilities for improvement in government services within its subject area;

(f)  accept reports from the professional legislative staff and make recommendations for legislative action with respect to such reports; and

(g)  prepare and recommend to the Legislature a legislative program in response to the committee's study agenda.

(2) (a)  As used in this Subsection (2):

(i)  "Health insurance" is as defined in Section 31A-1-301.

(ii)  "Health insurance mandate" means a mandatory obligation with respect to a coverage, benefit, or provider that, but for Title 31A, Insurance Code, would not be required for a policy of health insurance.

(iii)  "Review committee" means:

(A)  the Business and Labor Interim Committee; and

(B)  the Health and Human Services Interim Committee.

(b)  In addition to the duties established pursuant to Subsection (1), annually each review committee shall:

(i)  identify the one or more health insurance mandates listed under Subsection (2)(d) that:

(A)  are in effect for five or more years as of May 1; and

(B)  have not been reviewed during the previous 10 years as of May 1;

(ii)  select which of the one or more health insurance mandates identified under Subsection (2)(b)(i) that the review committee elects to review, subject to the direction of the Legislative Management Committee; and

(iii)  review a health insurance mandate selected under Subsection (2)(b)(ii) to determine whether the health insurance mandate should be continued, modified, or repealed.

(c)  The review under this Subsection (2) shall include:

(i)  the estimated fiscal impact of the health insurance mandate on state and private health insurance; and

(ii)  the purpose and effectiveness of the health insurance mandate.

(d)  The Insurance Department shall:

(i)  provide a list of the health insurance mandates in this state in its annual report; and

(ii)  assist in a review if requested by a review committee.

(3)  Except as otherwise provided by law, reports and recommendations of the interim committees shall be completed and made public prior to any legislative session at which the reports and recommendations are submitted.  A copy of the reports and recommendations shall be mailed to each member or member-elect of the Legislature, to each elective state officer, and to the state library.

