36-12-6.   Permanent committees -- House and Senate management -- Members -- Chairman -- Legislative Management Committee -- Membership -- Chairman and vice-chairman -- Meetings -- Quorum.

(1)  There are hereby established as permanent committees of the Legislature a House Management Committee and a Senate Management Committee.  The House Management Committee shall consist of eight members of the House of Representatives, four from each major political party.  The membership shall include the elected leadership of the House of Representatives and additional members chosen at the beginning of each annual general session by the minority party caucus as needed to complete the full membership.  The chairman of the committee shall be the speaker of the House of Representatives or his designee.  The Senate Management Committee shall consist of eight members of the Senate, four from each major political party.  The membership shall include the elected leadership of the Senate and additional members chosen at the beginning of each annual general session by the appropriate party caucus as needed to complete the full membership.  The chairman of the committee shall be the president of the Senate or his designee.

(2)  There is hereby established a permanent committee of the Legislature to be known as the Legislative Management Committee.  The committee shall consist of the membership of the House Management Committee and the Senate Management Committee meeting jointly.  The president of the Senate or his designee shall be chairman during 1987, and the speaker of the House of Representatives or his designee shall be vice-chairman of the committee during that year.  The positions of chairman and vice-chairman of the Legislative Management Committee shall rotate annually between these two officers in succeeding years.  The committee shall meet as often as is necessary to perform its duties, but not less than once each quarter.

(3)  If a legislator declines membership on the committees established by this section, or if a vacancy occurs, a replacement shall be chosen by the leadership of the appropriate party of the house in which the vacancy occurs.

(4)  The committees established by this section shall meet not later than 60 days after the adjournment sine die of the annual general session held in even-numbered years and not later than 30 days after the adjournment sine die of the annual general session held in odd-numbered years for the purpose of effecting their organization and prescribing rules and policies pertaining to their respective powers and duties.  A majority of the members of each committee constitutes a quorum, and a majority of a quorum has authority to act in any matter falling within the jurisdiction of the committee.

