63J-1-104.   Revenue types -- Disposition of funds collected or credited by
a state agency.
(1) (a)  The Division of Finance shall:
(i)  account for revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; and
(ii)  use the major revenue types in internal accounting.
(b)  Each agency shall:
(i)  use the major revenue types to account for revenues;
(ii)  deposit revenues and other public funds received by them by following
the procedures and requirements of Title 51, Chapter 7, State Money Management
Act; and
(iii)  expend revenues and public funds as required by this chapter.
(2) (a)  Each agency shall deposit its free revenues into the appropriate
fund.
(b)  An agency may expend free revenues up to the amount specifically
appropriated by the Legislature.
(c)  Any free revenue funds appropriated by the Legislature to an agency that
remain unexpended at the end of the fiscal year lapse to the source fund
unless the Legislature provides by law that those funds are nonlapsing.
(3) (a)  Each agency shall deposit its restricted revenues into a restricted
fund.
(b)  The Legislature may appropriate restricted revenues from a restricted
fund for the specific purpose or program designated by law.
(c)  If the fund equity of a restricted fund is insufficient to provide the
funds appropriated from it by the Legislature, the Division of Finance may
reduce the appropriation to a level that ensures that the fund equity is not
less than zero.
(d)  Any restricted revenue funds appropriated by the Legislature to an agency
that remain unexpended at the end of the fiscal year lapse to the restricted
fund unless the Legislature provides by law that those funds, or the program
or line item financed by those funds, are nonlapsing.
(4) (a)  An agency may expend dedicated credits for any purpose within the
program or line item.
(b) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b)(ii), an agency may not expend
dedicated credits in excess of the amount appropriated as dedicated credits by
the Legislature.
(ii)  In order to expend dedicated credits in excess of the amount
appropriated as dedicated credits by the Legislature, the following procedure
shall be followed:
(A)  The agency seeking to make the excess expenditure shall:
(I)  develop a new work program that:
(Aa)  consists of the currently approved work program and the excess
expenditure sought to be made; and
(Bb)  complies with the requirements of Section 63J-2-202;
(II)  prepare a written justification for the new work program that sets forth
the purpose and necessity of the excess expenditure; and
(III)  submit the new work program and the written justification for the new
work program to the Division of Finance.
(B)  The Division of Finance shall process the new work program with written
justification and make this information available to the Governor's Office of
Planning and Budget and the legislative fiscal analyst.

(iii)  An expenditure of dedicated credits in excess of amounts appropriated
as dedicated credits by the Legislature may not be used to permanently
increase personnel within the agency unless:
(A)  the increase is approved by the Legislature; or
(B)  the monies are deposited as dedicated credits in:
(I)  the Drug Stamp Tax Fund under Section 59-19-105; or
(II)  a line item covering tuition or federal vocational funds at an
institution of higher education.
(c) (i)  All excess dedicated credits lapse to the appropriate fund at the end
of the fiscal year unless the Legislature has designated the entire program or
line item that is partially or fully funded from dedicated credits as
nonlapsing.
(ii)  The Division of Finance shall determine the appropriate fund into which
the dedicated credits lapse.
(5) (a)  The Legislature may establish by law the maximum amount of fixed
collections that an agency may expend.
(b)  If an agency receives less than the maximum amount of expendable fixed
collections established by law, the agency's authority to expend is limited to
the amount of fixed collections that it receives.
(c)  If an agency receives fixed collections greater than the maximum amount
of expendable fixed collections established by law, those excess amounts lapse
to the General Fund, the Education Fund, the Uniform School Fund, or the
Transportation Fund as designated by the director of the Division of Finance
at the end of the fiscal year.
(6)  Unless otherwise specifically provided by law, when an agency has a
program or line item that is funded by more than one major revenue type:
(a)  the agency shall expend its dedicated credits and fixed collections
first; and
(b) if the program or line item includes both free revenue and restricted
revenue, an agency shall expend those revenues based upon a proration of the
amounts appropriated from each of those major revenue types.
