63J-1-206.   Appropriations governed by chapter -- Restrictions on
expenditures -- Transfer of funds -- Exclusion.
(1)  As used in this section, "work program" means a budget that contains
revenues and expenditures for specific purposes or functions within an item of
appropriation.
(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), (3)(e), or where expressly
exempted in the appropriating act:
(i)  all monies appropriated by the Legislature are appropriated upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this chapter; and
(ii)  any department, agency, or institution that accepts monies appropriated
by the Legislature does so subject to the requirements of this chapter.
(b)  This section does not apply to:
(i)  the Legislature and its committees; and
(ii)  the Investigation Account of the Water Resources Construction Fund,
which is governed by Section 73-10-8.
(3) (a)  Each appropriation item is to be expended subject to any schedule of
programs and any restriction attached to the appropriation item, as designated
by the Legislature.
(b)  Each schedule of programs or restriction attached to an appropriation
item:
(i)  is a restriction or limitation upon the expenditure of the respective
appropriation made;
(ii)  does not itself appropriate any money; and
(iii)  is not itself an item of appropriation.
(c)  An appropriation or any surplus of any appropriation may not be diverted
from any department, agency, institution, or division to any other department,
agency, institution, or division.
(d)  The money appropriated subject to a schedule or programs or restriction
may be used only for the purposes authorized.
(e) In order for a department, agency, or institution to transfer monies
appropriated to it from one program to another program within an item of
appropriation, the following procedure shall be followed:
(i)  The department, agency, or institution seeking to make the transfer shall
prepare:
(A)  a new work program for the fiscal year involved that consists of the
currently approved work program and the transfer sought to be made; and
(B)  a written justification for the new work program that sets forth the
purpose and necessity for the transfer.
(ii)  The Division of Finance shall process the new work program with written
justification and make this information available to the Governor's Office of
Planning and Budget and the legislative fiscal analyst.
(f)  Monies may not be transferred from one item of appropriation to any other
item of appropriation.
