63J-1-217.   Overexpenditure of budget by agency -- Prorating budget income
shortfall.
(1) Expenditures of departments, agencies, and institutions of state
government shall be kept within revenues available for such expenditures.
(2) (a) Line items of appropriation shall not be overexpended.
(b) Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a), if an agency's line item is
overexpended at the close of a fiscal year:
(i)  the director of the Division of Finance may make payments from the line
item to vendors for goods or services that were received on or before June 30;
and
(ii)  the director of the Division of Finance shall immediately reduce the
agency's line item budget in the current year by the amount of the
overexpenditure.
(c)  Each agency with an overexpended line item shall:
(i)  prepare a written report explaining the reasons for the overexpenditure;
and
(ii)  present the report to:
(A)  the Board of Examiners as required by Section 63G-9-301; and
(B)  the Office of the Legislative Fiscal Analyst.
(3) (a)  As used in this Subsection (3):
(i)  "Education Fund budget deficit" has the same meaning as in Section
63J-1-312; and
(ii)  "General Fund budget deficit" has the same meaning as in Section
63J-1-312.
(b)  If an Education Fund budget deficit or a General Fund budget deficit
exists and the adopted estimated revenues were prepared in consensus with the
Governor's Office of Planning and Budget, the governor shall:
(i)  direct state agencies to reduce commitments and expenditures by an amount
proportionate to the amount of the deficiency; and
(ii)  direct the Division of Finance to reduce allotments to institutions of
higher education by an amount proportionate to the amount of the deficiency.
(c)  The governor's directions under Subsection (3)(b) are rescinded when the
Legislature rectifies the Education Fund budget deficit and the General Fund
budget deficit.
(4) (a) A department may not receive an advance of funds that cannot be
covered by anticipated revenue within the work program of the fiscal year,
unless the governor allocates money from the governor's emergency
appropriations.
(b)  All allocations made from the governor's emergency appropriations shall
be reported to the budget subcommittee of the Legislative Management Committee
by notifying the Office of the Legislative Fiscal Analyst at least 15 days
before the effective date of the allocation.
(c)  Emergency appropriations shall be allocated only to support activities
having existing legislative approval and appropriation, and may not be
allocated to any activity or function rejected directly or indirectly by the
Legislature.
