63J-1-601.   End of fiscal year -- Unexpended balances -- Funds not to be
closed out -- Pending claims -- Transfer of amounts from item of appropriation
-- Nonlapsing accounts and funds -- Institutes of higher education to report
unexpended balances.
(1)  As used in this section, "transaction control number" means the unique
numerical identifier established by the Department of Health to track each
medical claim, which indicates the date upon which the claim is entered.
(2)  On or before August 31 of each fiscal year, the director of the Division
of Finance shall close out to the proper fund or account all remaining
unexpended and unencumbered balances of appropriations made by the
Legislature, except:
(a)  those funds classified under Title 51, Chapter 5, Funds Consolidation Act
as:
(i)  enterprise funds;
(ii)  internal service funds;
(iii)  trust and agency funds;
(iv)  capital projects funds;
(v)  discrete component unit funds;
(vi)  debt service funds; and
(vii)  permanent funds;
(b)  those revenue collections, appropriations from a fund or account, or
appropriations to a program that are designated as nonlapsing under Sections
63J-1-602.1 through 63J-1-602.5;
(c)  restricted special revenue funds, unless specifically directed to close
out the fund in the fund's enabling legislation;
(d)  acquisition and development funds appropriated to the Division of Parks
and Recreation;
(e)  funds encumbered to pay purchase orders issued prior to May 1 for capital
equipment if delivery is expected before June 30; and
(f)  unexpended and unencumbered balances of appropriations that meet the
requirements of Section 63J-1-603.
(3) (a)  Liabilities and related expenses for goods and services received on
or before June 30 shall be recognized as expenses due and payable from
appropriations made prior to June 30.
(b)  The liability and related expense shall be recognized within time periods
established by the Division of Finance but shall be recognized not later than
August 31.
(c)  Liabilities and expenses not so recognized may be paid from regular
departmental appropriations for the subsequent fiscal year, if these claims do
not exceed unexpended and unencumbered balances of appropriations for the
years in which the obligation was incurred.
(d)  No amounts may be transferred from an item of appropriation of any
department, institution, or agency into the Capital Projects Fund or any other
fund without the prior express approval of the Legislature.
(4) (a)  For purposes of this chapter, claims processed under the authority of
Title 26, Chapter 18, Medical Assistance Act:
(i)  may not be considered a liability or expense to the state for budgetary
purposes unless they are received by the Division of Health Care Financing
within the time periods established by the Division of Finance under
Subsection (3)(b); and
(ii)  are not subject to the requirements of Subsection (3)(c).
(b)  The transaction control number recorded on each claim invoice by the
division is considered the date of receipt.
(5)  Any balance from an appropriation to a state institution of higher
education that remains unexpended at the end of the fiscal year shall be
reported to the Division of Finance by the September 1 following the close of
the fiscal year.
