63J-1-603.   Nonlapsing authority.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a) (i)  "Agency" means each department, commission, board, council, agency,
institution, officer, corporation, fund, division, office, committee,
authority, laboratory, library, unit, bureau, panel, or other administrative
unit of the state.
(ii)  "Agency" does not include those entities whose unappropriated and
unencumbered balances are made nonlapsing by the operation of Subsection
63J-1-601(2).
(b)  "Appropriation balance" means the unexpended and unencumbered balance of
a line item appropriation made by the Legislature to an agency that exists at
the end of a fiscal year.
(c)  "Nonlapsing" means that an agency's appropriation balance is not closed
out to the appropriate fund at the end of a fiscal year as required by Section
63J-1-601.
(d)  "One-time project" means a project or program that can be completed with
the appropriation balance and includes such items as employee incentive awards
and bonuses, purchase of equipment, and one-time training.
(e)  "One-time projects list" means:
(i)  a prioritized list of one-time projects, upon which an agency would like
to spend any appropriation balance; and
(ii)  for each project, the maximum amount the agency is estimating for the
project.
(f)  "Program" means a service provided by an agency to members of the public,
other agencies, or to employees of the agency.
(2)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Section 63J-1-601, an agency may, by
following the procedures and requirements of this section, retain and expend
any appropriation balance.
(3) (a)  Each agency that wishes to preserve any part or all of its
appropriation balance as nonlapsing shall include a one-time projects list as
part of the budget request that it submits to the governor and the Legislature
at the annual general session of the Legislature immediately before the end of
the fiscal year in which the agency may have an appropriation balance.
(b)  An agency may not include a proposed expenditure on its one-time projects
list if:
(i)  the expenditure creates a new program;
(ii)  the expenditure enhances the level of an existing program; or
(iii)  the expenditure will require a legislative appropriation in the next
fiscal year.
(c)  The governor:
(i)  may approve some or all of the items from an agency's one-time projects
list; and
(ii)  shall identify and prioritize any approved one-time projects in the
budget that the governor submits to the Legislature.
(4)  The Legislature:
(a)  may approve some or all of the specific items from an agency's one-time
projects list as authorized expenditures of an agency's appropriation balance;
(b)  shall identify any authorized one-time projects in the appropriate line
item appropriation; and
(c)  may prioritize one-time projects in intent language.
