79-3-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Agency" means a department, division, office, bureau, board, commission, or other administrative unit of the state.

(2)  "Board" means the Board of the Utah Geological Survey.

(3)  "Collection" means a specimen and the associated records documenting the specimen and its recovery.

(4)  "Critical paleontological resources" means vertebrate fossils and other exceptional fossils that are designated state paleontological landmarks as provided for in Section 79-3-505.

(5)  "Curation" means:

(a)  management and care of collections according to standard professional museum practice, which may include inventorying, accessioning, labeling, cataloging, identifying, evaluating, documenting, storing, maintaining, periodically inspecting, cleaning, stabilizing, conserving, exhibiting, exchanging, or otherwise disposing of original collections or reproductions; and

(b)  providing access to and facilities for studying collections.

(6)  "Curation facility" is as defined in Section 53B-17-603.

(7)  "Director" means the director of the survey.

(8)  "Excavate" means the recovery of critical paleontological resources.

(9)  "Museum" means the Utah Museum of Natural History.

(10)  "Paleontological resources" means remains of prehistoric life pertaining to the natural history of the state.

(11)  "Repository" is defined as provided in Section 53B-17-603.

(12)  "School and institutional land grants" means the transfer of properties pursuant to Sections 6 and 8 of the Utah Enabling Act and Utah Constitution Article XX.

(13)  "School and institutional trust lands" are those properties defined in Section 53C-1-103.

(14)  "Site" means any paleontological deposit or other location that is the source of a specimen.

(15)  "Specimen" means remains of a critical paleontological nature found on or below the surface of the earth.

(16)  "State Paleontological Register" means a register of paleontological sites and localities.

(17)  "Survey" means the Utah Geological Survey.

