39-1-12.   Adjutant general -- Appointment -- Term -- Duties.
(1) (a)  There shall be one adjutant general appointed by the governor. The
adjutant general is chief of staff and holds office for a term of six years,
unless terminated by resignation, disability, or for cause as determined by a
military court or court-martial.
(b)  The person appointed to the office shall be a citizen of Utah and meet
the requirements provided in Title 32, United States Code.  He shall be a
federally recognized commissioned officer of the National Guard of the United
States with no fewer than ten years commissioned service in the Utah National
Guard.  Active service in the armed forces of the United States may be
included in this requirement, if the officer was a member of the Utah National
Guard when he entered that service.  An officer is no longer eligible to hold
the office of adjutant general after becoming 64 years of age.
(2) (a)  He shall perform duties as are imposed by the laws of this state and
the United States, and by the regulations of the Department of Defense of the
United States.  However, if any duties imposed by the statutes of this state
at any later time conflict with those imposed by the laws of the United
States, the duties imposed by the statutes of this state, as far as they
conflict, are abrogated.
(b)  He shall keep rosters of all active, inactive, and retired officers and
enlisted men of the National Guard and shall keep in his office all records,
orders, regulations, and papers pertaining to the National Guard and the
militia of this state.  He shall, when he considers it necessary, at the
expense of the state purchase or cause to be printed, and issue to members of
the National Guard or other persons, copies of the military law, the various
orders of the Department of Defense of the United States, and other literature
he considers best for the interests of the service.
(c)  He shall cause to be prepared all blanks, books, forms, and reports
necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.  The blanks or forms
shall be as identical as possible to those required by the Department of
Defense of the United States for use by the regular army or National Guard.
(d)  He has, under the direction of the State Armory Board, supervision and
charge of all the armories, warehouses, maintenance and repair shops, hangars,
small-arms, artillery and aircraft ranges, campsites, concentration areas,
lands, training facilities, and military reservations necessary to the
military functions of this state.  He is responsible for the protection and
safety thereof and shall make rules for the maintenance of order, for the
enforcement of rules as may be ordered for the operation and the repair, care,
and preservation of the facilities and installations belonging to or leased by
the state.  He may make further improvement as the good of the service
requires.
(e)  He shall cause to be prepared all blanks, books, forms, notices, and
reports to carry out the provisions of the military laws of this state. The
blanks, books, forms, notices, and reports shall be as identical as possible
to those required by the Department of Defense for use by the Armed Forces of
the United States.
(f)  He shall make and transmit to the federal government the returns required
by the laws of the United States and submit to the governor a certified copy.
He shall superintend the preparation of all returns and reports required by
the United States from Utah on military matters.
(g)  He shall act as agent for all active, inactive, or retired members of the
National Guard having claims against the United States for pensions, bounty,
back pay, or disability arising from any war, federal service, or training.
He shall handle the claims without charge.
(h)  He shall, on or before January 1 next preceding the general session of
the Legislature, make a full and detailed report to the governor of all
transactions of his office, including related expenses, for the preceding year
and shall report at other times and on other matters as the governor requires
or as he considers advisable.
