39-1-18.   Joint forces headquarters deputy commander -- Assistant adjutant general for the army -- Assistant adjutant general for air -- Officer for permanent duty as personnel officer.

(1)  There is authorized a joint forces headquarters deputy commander.

(a)  The adjutant general, with the approval of the governor, may detail the joint forces headquarters deputy commander.

(b)  The deputy commander of the joint forces headquarters shall be a field grade federally recognized commissioned officer of the Utah National Guard with not less than five years military service in the armed forces of the state or of the United States, at least three of which shall have been commissioned in the Utah National Guard.  The officer shall:

(i)  hold office at the pleasure of the adjutant general; and

(ii)  devote all of his time during office hours of the military department to the duties of the office.

(2)  There is authorized an assistant adjutant general for the army and an assistant adjutant general for air.

(a)  The adjutant general with the approval of the governor may detail the assistant adjutant general for the army or the assistant adjutant general for air for permanent duty. 

(b)  The assistant adjutant general for the army and the assistant adjutant general for air shall be federally recognized field grade commissioned officers of the Utah National Guard with not less than five years military service in the armed forces of the state or of the United States, at least three of which shall have been commissioned in the Utah National Guard.  The officer shall:

(i)  hold office at the pleasure of the adjutant general; and

(ii)  devote all of his time during office hours of the military department to the duties of the office.

(3)  The adjutant general, with the approval of the governor, may detail one officer of the Utah National Guard for permanent duty as the personnel officer.

(a)  The officer shall be a federally recognized commissioned officer, or former federally recognized commissioned officer, of the Utah National Guard with not less than three years military service in the armed forces of the state or of the United States, one of which shall have been commissioned in the Utah National Guard.

(b)  The officer shall hold office at the pleasure of the adjutant general.

(c)  The duties of the personnel officer shall be as the adjutant general may direct, to include the normal duty of the staff G-1.

(d)  The officer shall devote all of his time during the office hours of the military department to the duties of the office.

