51-8-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Charitable purpose" means the relief of poverty, the advancement of
education or religion, the promotion of health, the promotion of governmental
purposes, and any other purpose the achievement of which is beneficial to the
community.
(2) (a)  "Endowment fund" means an institutional fund, or any part of an
institutional fund, not wholly expendable by the institution on a current
basis under the terms of a gift instrument.
(b)  "Endowment fund" does not include assets of an institution designated by
the institution as an endowment fund for its own use.
(3)  "Gift instrument" means a record or records, including an institutional
solicitation, under which property is granted to, transferred to, or held by
an institution as an institutional fund.
(4) (a)  "Governing board" means the body responsible for the management of an
institution or of an institutional fund.
(b)  "Governing board" means, for a higher education institution, the board of
trustees of the higher education institution.
(5)  "Higher education institution" means the institutions specified in
Section 53B-1-102.
(6)  "Institution" means:
(a)  a person, other than an individual, organized and operated exclusively
for charitable purposes;
(b)  a government or a governmental subdivision, agency, or instrumentality to
the extent that it holds funds exclusively for a charitable purpose; and
(c)  a trust that had both charitable and noncharitable interests, after all
noncharitable interests have terminated.
(7) (a)  "Institutional fund" means a fund held by an institution exclusively
for charitable purposes.
(b)  "Institutional fund" does not include:
(i)  program-related assets;
(ii)  a fund held for an institution by a trustee that is not an institution;
(iii)  a fund in which a beneficiary that is not an institution has an
interest, other than an interest that could arise upon violation or failure of
the purposes of the fund; or
(iv)  operating funds.
(8)  "Manager" means either:
(a)  the state treasurer; or
(b)  a higher education institution that accepts the responsibility for the
management of institutional funds of a different higher education institution.
(9)  "Operating funds" means monies used for the general operation of a higher
education institution that are received by the higher education institution
from:
(a)  state appropriations;
(b)  government contracts;
(c)  government grants; or
(d)  tuition and fees collected from students.
(10)  "Person" means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture,
public corporation, government or governmental subdivision, agency,
instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity.
(11)  "Program-related asset" means an asset held by an institution primarily
to accomplish a charitable purpose of the institution and not primarily for
appreciation or the production of income.
(12)  "Record" means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or
that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in
perceivable form.
