51-8-202.   Standards for managing and investing an institutional fund.
(1)  In managing and investing an institutional fund, an institution:
(a)  may incur only costs that are appropriate and reasonable in relation to
the assets, the purposes of the institution, and the skills available to the
institution; and
(b)  shall make a reasonable effort to verify facts relevant to the management
and investment of the fund.
(2)  An institution may pool two or more institutional funds for purposes of
management and investment.
(3)  Except as otherwise provided by a gift instrument, the following rules
apply:
(a)  In managing and investing an institutional fund, the following factors,
if relevant, must be considered:
(i)  general economic conditions;
(ii)  the possible effect of inflation or deflation;
(iii)  the expected tax consequences, if any, of investment decisions or
strategies;
(iv)  the role that each investment or course of action plays within the
overall investment portfolio of the fund;
(v)  the expected total return from income and the appreciation of
investments;
(vi)  other resources of the institution;
(vii)  the needs of the institution and the fund to make distributions and to
preserve capital; and
(viii)  an asset's special relationship or special value, if any, to the
charitable purposes of the institution.
(b)  Management and investment decisions about an individual asset must be
made not in isolation but rather in the context of the institutional fund's
portfolio of investments as a whole and as a part of an overall investment
strategy having risk and return objectives reasonably suited to the fund and
to the institution.
(c)  Except as otherwise provided by law other than this chapter, an
institution may invest in any kind of property or type of investment
consistent with the standards of this section.
(d)  An institution shall diversify the investments of an institutional fund
unless the institution reasonably determines that, because of special
circumstances, the purposes of the fund are better served without
diversification.
(e)  Within a reasonable time after receiving property, an institution shall
make and implement decisions concerning the retention or disposition of the
property or to rebalance a portfolio, in order to bring the institutional fund
into compliance with the purposes, terms, distribution requirements, and other
circumstances of the institution and the requirements of this chapter.
(f)  A person who has special skills or expertise, or is selected in reliance
upon the person's representation that the person has special skills or
expertise, has a duty to use those special skills or that expertise in
managing and investing institutional funds.
