19-2-108.   Notice of construction or modification of installations required -- Authority of executive secretary to prohibit construction -- Hearings -- Limitations on authority of board -- Inspections authorized.

(1)  The board shall require that notice be given to the executive secretary by any person planning to construct a new installation which will or might reasonably be expected to be a source or indirect source of air pollution or to make modifications to an existing installation which will or might reasonably be expected to increase the amount of or change the character or effect of air contaminants discharged, so that the installation may be expected to be a source or indirect source of air pollution, or by any person planning to install an air cleaning device or other equipment intended to control emission of air contaminants.

(2) (a) (i)  The executive secretary may require, as a condition precedent to the construction, modification, installation, or establishment of the air contaminant source or indirect source, the submission of plans, specifications, and other information as he finds necessary to determine whether the proposed construction, modification, installation, or establishment will be in accord with applicable rules in force under this chapter.

(ii)  Plan approval for an indirect source may be delegated by the executive secretary to a local authority when requested and upon assurance that the local authority has and will maintain sufficient expertise to insure that the planned installation will meet the requirements established by law.

(b)  If within 90 days after the receipt of plans, specifications, or other information required under this subsection, the executive secretary determines that the proposed construction, installation, or establishment or any part of it will not be in accord with the requirements of this chapter or applicable rules or that further time, not exceeding three extensions of 30 days each, is required by the board to adequately review the plans, specifications, or other information, he shall issue an order prohibiting the construction, installation, or establishment of the air contaminant source or sources in whole or in part.

(3)  In addition to any other remedies, any person aggrieved by the issuance of an order either granting or denying a request for the construction of a new installation, and prior to invoking any such other remedies shall, upon request, in accordance with the rules of the board, be entitled to a hearing conducted by an administrative law judge as provided by Section 19-1-301.  Following the hearing and the receipt by the board of the proposed dispositive action from the administrative law judge, the board may affirm, modify, or withdraw the permit.

(4)  Any features, machines, and devices constituting parts of or called for by plans, specifications, or other information submitted under Subsection (1) shall be maintained in good working order.

(5)  This section does not authorize the board to require the use of machinery, devices, or equipment from a particular supplier or produced by a particular manufacturer if the required performance standards may be met by machinery, devices, or equipment otherwise available.

(6) (a)  Any authorized officer, employee, or representative of the board may enter and inspect any property, premise, or place on or at which an air contaminant source is located or is being constructed, modified, installed, or established at any reasonable time for the purpose of ascertaining the state of compliance with this chapter and the rules adopted under it.

(b) (i)  A person may not refuse entry or access to any authorized representative of the board who requests entry for purposes of inspection and who presents appropriate credentials.

(ii)  A person may not obstruct, hamper, or interfere with any inspection.

(c)  If requested, the owner or operator of the premises shall receive a report setting forth all facts found which relate to compliance status.

