19-2-109.2.   Small business assistance program.
(1)  The board shall establish a small business stationary source technical
and environmental compliance assistance program that conforms with Title V of
the 1990 Clean Air Act to assist small businesses to comply with state and
federal air pollution laws.
(2)  There is created the Compliance Advisory Panel to advise and monitor the
program created in Subsection (1).  The seven panel members are:
(a)  two members who are not owners or representatives of owners of small
business stationary air pollution sources, selected by the governor to
represent the general public;
(b)  four members who are owners or who represent owners of small business
stationary sources selected by leadership of the Utah Legislature as follows:
(i)  one member selected by the majority leader of the Senate;
(ii)  one member selected by the minority leader of the Senate;
(iii)  one member selected by the majority leader of the House of
Representatives; and
(iv)  one member selected by the minority leader of the House of
Representatives; and
(c)  one member selected by the executive director to represent the Division
of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (b), as terms of current panel
members expire, the department shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (a), the department shall,
at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to
ensure that the terms of panel members are staggered so that approximately
half of the panel is appointed every two years.
(4)  Members may serve more than one term.
(5)  Members shall hold office until the expiration of their terms and until
their successors are appointed, but not more than 90 days after the expiration
of their terms.
(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(7)  Every two years, the panel shall elect a chair from its members.
(8) (a)  The panel shall meet as necessary to carry out its duties. Meetings
may be called by the chair, the executive secretary, or upon written request
of three of the members of the panel.
(b)  Three days' notice shall be given to each member of the panel prior to a
meeting.
(9)  Four members constitute a quorum at any meeting, and the action of the
majority of members present is the action of the panel.
(10) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the panel at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c)  Legislators on the committee shall receive compensation and expenses as
provided by law and legislative rule.
