32A-13-104 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Prosecutions.
(1)  All prosecutions for violations of this title or commission rules shall
be in the name of the state of Utah. A criminal action for violation of any
county or municipal ordinance enacted in furtherance of this title shall be in
the name of the governmental entity involved.
(2) (a)  Prosecution for violation of any provision of this title or
commission rule shall be brought by the county attorney of the county or
district attorney of the prosecution district where the violation occurs. If
any county attorney or district attorney fails to initiate or diligently
pursue any prosecution authorized and warranted under this title, the attorney
general shall exercise supervisory authority over the county attorney or
district attorney to ensure prosecution is initiated and diligently pursued.
(b)  If a violation occurs within a city or town, prosecution may be brought
by either the county, district, or city attorney, notwithstanding any
provision of law limiting the powers of city attorneys.
(c)  Local city and town prosecutors also have the responsibility of
initiating and diligently pursuing prosecutions for violations of any local
ordinances enacted in furtherance of this title or commission rules.
(3)  Prosecutions for violations of this title or commission rules shall be
commenced by the return of an indictment or the filing of an information with
the district court of the county in which the offense occurred or where the
premises are located upon which any alcoholic product was seized, if the
offense involves an alcoholic product. All other offenses prescribed by this
title  shall be filed before any court having jurisdiction of the offense
committed.
(4)  Unless otherwise provided by law, no information may be filed charging
the commission of any felony or class A misdemeanor under this title unless
authorized by a prosecuting attorney. This restriction does not apply in cases
where the magistrate has reasonable cause to believe that the person to be
charged may avoid apprehension or escape before approval can be obtained.
(5)  In describing an offense respecting the sale, keeping for sale, or other
disposal of alcoholic products, or the having, keeping, giving, purchasing, or
the consumption of alcoholic products in any information, indictment, summons,
judgment, warrant, or proceeding under this title, it is sufficient to state
the sale, keeping for sale, or disposal, having, keeping, giving, purchasing,
or consumption of the alcoholic product without stating the name or kind of
the alcoholic product or the price of the alcoholic product, or any person to
whom it was sold or disposed of, or by whom it was taken or consumed, or from
whom it was purchased or received. It is not necessary to state the quantity
of alcoholic beverage so sold, kept for sale, disposed of, had, kept, given,
purchased, or consumed, except in the case of offenses where the quantity is
essential, and then it is sufficient to allege the sale or disposal of more or
less than the quantity.
(6)  If an offense is committed under a local ordinance enacted to carry out
this title, it is sufficient if the charging document refers to the chapter
and section of the ordinance under which the offense is committed.
