53B-8c-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Child" means an individual who:

(a)  is a natural or adopted child of a deceased peace officer or deceased firefighter; and

(b)  was under the age of 25 at the time of the peace officer's or firefighter's death.

(2)  "Department" means the Department of Public Safety.

(3)  "Killed" means that the peace officer's or firefighter's death is the direct and proximate result of a traumatic injury incurred in the line of duty.

(4)  "Line of duty" means an action that a peace officer or firefighter is obligated or authorized to perform by rule, regulation, condition of employment or service, or law, including a social, ceremonial, or athletic function that the peace officer or firefighter is assigned to or compensated for by the public agency being served.

(5)  "Occupational disease" means a disease that routinely constitutes a special hazard in, or is commonly regarded as concomitant of, the peace officer's or firefighter's occupation.

(6)  "State institution of higher education" means those institutions designated in Section 53B-1-102.

(7)  "Traumatic injury" means a wound or the condition of the body caused by external force, including an injury inflicted by bullet, explosive, sharp instrument, blunt object, or other physical blow, fire, smoke, chemical, electricity, climatic condition, infectious disease, radiation, or bacteria, but excluding an occupational disease.

(8)  "Tuition" means tuition at the rate charged for residents of the state.

(9) (a)  "Utah firefighter" or "firefighter" means a member, including volunteer members and members paid on call, of a fire department or other organization that provides fire suppression and other fire-related services, of a political subdivision who is responsible for or is in a capacity that includes responsibility for the extinguishment of fires.

(b)  "Utah firefighter" or "firefighter" does not include a person whose job description, duties, or responsibilities do not include direct involvement in fire suppression.

(10)  "Utah peace officer" or "peace officer" means an employee of a law enforcement agency that is part of or administered by the state or any of its political subdivisions, and whose duties consist primarily of the prevention and detection of crime and the enforcement of criminal statutes or ordinances of this state or any of its political subdivisions.



Amended by Chapter 282, 1998 General Session

