73-27-102.   State Water Development Commission created.

(1)  The State Water Development Commission is created to determine the state's role in the protection, conservation, and development of the state's water resources.

(2)  The commission membership shall include:

(a)  five members of the Senate, appointed by the president of the Senate, no more than four of whom may be from the same political party;

(b)  eight members of the House of Representatives, appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives, no more than six of whom may be from the same political party; and

(c)  the following non-voting members, appointed by the governor:

(i)  a representative of the Office of the Governor;

(ii)  a representative of the Green River District;

(iii)  a representative of the Upper Colorado River District;

(iv)  a representative of the Lower Colorado River District;

(v)  a representative of the Lower Sevier River District;

(vi)  a representative of the Upper Sevier River District;

(vii)  a representative of the Provo River District;

(viii)  a representative of the Salt Lake District;

(ix)  a representative of the Weber River District;

(x)  a representative of the Bear River District;

(xi)  the executive director of the Department of Natural Resources;

(xii)  the executive director of the Department of Environmental Quality;

(xiii)  the commissioner of agriculture and food;

(xiv)  a member of the Board of Water Resources;

(xv)  a representative of an organized environmental group; and

(xvi)  a representative of agricultural production.

(3)  The president of the Senate and the speaker of the House of Representatives shall, to the extent possible, appoint members under Subsections (2)(a) and (b) that represent both rural and urban areas of the state.

(4) (a)  The president of the Senate shall designate a member of the Senate appointed under Subsection (2)(a) as a cochair of the commission.

(b)  The speaker of the House of Representatives shall designate a member of the House of Representatives appointed under Subsection (2)(b) as a cochair of the commission.

(5)  Attendance by at least 50% of one legislative house and more than 50% of the other legislative house constitutes a quorum.

(6) (a)  Salaries and expenses of the members of the commission shall be paid in accordance with Section 36-2-2 and Legislative Joint Rules, Title 5, Chapter 3, Expense and Mileage Reimbursement for Authorized Legislative Meetings, Special Sessions, and Veto Override Sessions.

(b)  Commission members who are employees of the state shall receive no additional compensation.

(c)  Other commission members shall receive no compensation or expenses for their service on the commission.

(7)  The Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel shall provide staff support to the commission.

