19-4-103.   Drinking Water Board -- Members -- Organization -- Meetings --
Per diem and expenses.
(1)  The board created under Section 19-1-106 comprises 11 members, one of
whom is the executive director and the remainder of whom shall be appointed by
the governor with the consent of the Senate.
(2)  No more than five appointed members shall be from the same political
party.
(3)  The appointed members shall be knowledgeable about drinking water and
public water systems and shall represent different geographical areas within
the state insofar as practicable.
(4)  The ten appointed members shall be appointed from the following areas:
(a)  two elected officials of municipal government or their representatives
involved in management or operation of public water systems;
(b)  two representatives of improvement districts, water conservancy
districts, or metropolitan water districts;
(c)  one representative from an industry which manages or operates a public
water system;
(d)  one registered professional engineer with expertise in civil or sanitary
engineering;
(e)  one representative from the state water research community or from an
institution of higher education which has comparable expertise in water
research;
(f)  two representatives of the public who do not represent other interests
named in this section and who do not receive, and have not received during the
past two years, a significant portion of their income, directly or indirectly,
from suppliers; and
(g)  one representative from a local health department.
(5) (a)  Members of the Utah Safe Drinking Water Committee created by Laws of
Utah 1981, Chapter 126, shall serve as members of the board throughout the
terms for which they were appointed.
(b)  Except as required by Subsection (5)(c), as terms of current board
members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(c)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (5)(b), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(7)  Each member holds office until the expiration of the member's term, and
until a successor is appointed, but not for more than 90 days after the
expiration of the term.
(8)  The board shall elect annually a chair and a vice chair from its members.
(9) (a)  The board shall meet at least quarterly.
(b)  Special meetings may be called by the chair upon his own initiative, upon
the request of the executive secretary, or upon the request of three members
of the board.
(c)  Reasonable notice shall be given each member of the board prior to any
meeting.
(10)  Six members constitute a quorum at any meeting and the action of the
majority of the members present is the action of the board.
(11) (a) (i)  A member who is not a government employee shall receive no
compensation or benefits for the member's services, but may receive per diem
and expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at
the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  A member may decline to receive per diem and expenses for the member's
service.
(b) (i)  A state government officer and employee member who does not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from the agency the member represents for the
member's service may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance
of the member's official duties from the board at the rates established by the
Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A state government officer and employee member may decline to receive
per diem and expenses for the member's service.
(c) (i)  A local government member who does not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that the member represents for the member's service
may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's
official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A local government member may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for the member's service.
