53B-1-103.   Establishment of State Board of Regents -- Powers and authority.

(1)  There is established a State Board of Regents.

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), the board is vested with the control, management, and supervision of the institutions of higher education designated in Section 53B-1-102 in a manner consistent with the policy and purpose of this title and the specific powers and responsibilities granted to it.

(b)  The board may only exercise powers relating to the Utah College of Applied Technology and its college campuses that are specifically provided in this title.

(c)  The board shall coordinate and support articulation agreements between the Utah College of Applied Technology and other institutions of higher education.

(d)  The board shall prepare and submit an annual report detailing its progress and recommendations on career and technical education issues to the governor and to the Legislature's Education Interim Committee by October 31 of each year, which shall include information detailing:

(i)  how the career and technical education needs of secondary students are being met by institutions of higher education other than the Utah College of Applied Technology, including what access secondary students have to programs offered by Salt Lake Community College's School of Applied Technology, Snow College, and Utah State University Eastern;

(ii)  how the emphasis on high demand, high wage, and high skill jobs in business and industry is being provided;

(iii)  performance outcomes, including:

(A)  entered employment;

(B)  job retention; and

(C)  earnings; and

(iv)  student tuition and fees.

(e)  Except for the Utah College of Applied Technology, the board may modify the name of an institution under its control and management, as designated in Section 53B-1-102, to reflect the role and general course of study of the institution.

(f)  The board may not conduct a feasibility study or perform another act relating to merging any of the following institutions with another institution of higher education:

(i)  the Bridgerland Applied Technology College Campus;

(ii)  the Ogden-Weber Applied Technology College Campus;

(iii)  the Davis Applied Technology College Campus;

(iv)  the Tooele Applied Technology College Campus;

(v)  the Mountainland Applied Technology College Campus;

(vi)  the Uintah Basin Applied Technology College Campus;

(vii)  the Southwest Applied Technology College Campus; and

(viii)  the Dixie Applied Technology College Campus.

(3)  This section does not affect the power and authority vested in the State Board of Education to apply for, accept, and manage federal appropriations for the establishment and maintenance of career and technical education.



Amended by Chapter 465, 2013 General Session

