53B-1-110.   Criminal background checks of prospective and existing
employees of higher education institutions -- Board to adopt policy.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Institution" means an institution listed in Section 53B-1-102.
(b)  "Minor" means a person younger than 21 years of age.
(2)  The board shall adopt a policy providing for criminal background checks
of:
(a)  prospective employees of institutions; and
(b)  existing employees of institutions, where reasonable cause exists.
(3) (a)  The policy shall require that:
(i)  an applicant for any position that involves significant contact with
minors or any position considered to be security sensitive by the board or its
designee shall submit to a criminal background check as a condition of
employment; and
(ii)  an existing employee submit to a criminal background check, where
reasonable cause exists.
(b)  Subsection (3)(a)(i) does not apply to adjunct faculty positions.
(c)  The policy may allow or require applicants for positions other than those
described in Subsection (3)(a)(i) to submit to a criminal background check as
a condition of employment.
(d)  The policy may allow criminal background checks for new employees to be
phased in over a two-year period.
(4)  The applicant or employee shall receive written notice that the
background check has been requested.
(5)  Each applicant or employee subject to a criminal background check under
this section shall, if required by the institution:
(a)  be fingerprinted; and
(b)  consent to a fingerprint background check by:
(i)  the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification; and
(ii)  the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(6) (a)  Institutions may request the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification
to conduct criminal background checks of prospective employees and, where
reasonable cause exists, existing employees pursuant to board policy.
(b)  At the request of an institution, the Utah Bureau of Criminal
Identification shall:
(i)  release the individual's full record of criminal convictions to the
administrator requesting the information; and
(ii)  seek additional information from regional or national criminal data
files in responding to inquiries under this section.
(c)  Information received by the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification from
entities other than agencies or political subdivisions of the state may not be
released to a private entity unless the release is permissible under
applicable laws or regulations of the entity providing the information.
(d)  Except as provided in Subsection (7), the institution shall pay the cost
of background checks conducted by the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification,
and the monies collected shall be credited to the Utah Bureau of Criminal
Identification to offset its expenses.
(7)  The board may by policy require an applicant to pay the costs of a
criminal background check as a condition of employment.
(8)  The applicant or employee shall have an opportunity to respond to any
information received as a result of the criminal background check.
(9)  If a person is denied employment or is dismissed from employment because
of information obtained through a criminal background check, the person shall
receive written notice of the reasons for denial or dismissal and have an
opportunity to respond to the reasons under procedures established by the
board in policy.
