49-22-102.    Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(c), "compensation" means the
total amount of payments made by a participating employer to a member of this
system for services rendered to the participating employer, including:
(i)  bonuses;
(ii)  cost-of-living adjustments;
(iii)  other payments currently includable in gross income and that are
subject to Social Security deductions, including any payments in excess of the
maximum amount subject to deduction under Social Security law;
(iv)  amounts that the member authorizes to be deducted or reduced for salary
deferral or other benefits authorized by federal law; and
(v)  member contributions.
(b)  "Compensation" for purposes of this chapter may not exceed the amount
allowed under Internal Revenue Code, Section 401(a)(17).
(c)  "Compensation" does not include:
(i)  the monetary value of remuneration paid in kind, including a residence or
use of equipment;
(ii)  the cost of any employment benefits paid for by the participating
employer;
(iii)  compensation paid to a temporary employee or an employee otherwise
ineligible for service credit;
(iv)  any payments upon termination, including accumulated vacation, sick
leave payments, severance payments, compensatory time payments, or any other
special payments; or
(v)  any allowances or payments to a member for costs or expenses paid by the
participating employer, including automobile costs, uniform costs, travel
costs, tuition costs, housing costs, insurance costs, equipment costs, and
dependent care costs.
(d)  The executive director may determine if a payment not listed under this
Subsection (1) falls within the definition of compensation.
(2)  "Corresponding Tier I system" means the system or plan that would have
covered the member if the member had initially entered employment before July
1, 2011.
(3)  "Final average salary" means the amount computed by averaging the highest
five years of annual compensation preceding retirement subject to Subsections
(3)(a), (b), (c), and (d).
(a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(b), the percentage increase in
annual compensation in any one of the years used may not exceed the previous
year's compensation by more than 10% plus a cost-of-living adjustment equal to
the decrease in the purchasing power of the dollar during the previous year,
as measured by a United States Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index
average as determined by the board.
(b)  In cases where the participating employer provides acceptable
documentation to the office, the limitation in Subsection (3)(a) may be
exceeded if:
(i)  the member has transferred from another agency; or
(ii)  the member has been promoted to a new position.
(c)  If the member retires more than six months from the date of termination
of employment, the member is considered to have been in service at the
member's last rate of pay from the date of the termination of employment to
the effective date of retirement for purposes of computing the member's final
average salary only.
(d)  If the member has less than five years of service credit in this system,
final average salary means the average annual compensation paid to the member
during the full period of service credit.
(4)  "Participating employer" means an employer which meets the participation
requirements of:
(a)  Sections 49-12-201 and 49-12-202;
(b)  Sections 49-13-201 and 49-13-202;
(c)  Section 49-19-201; or
(d)  Section 49-22-201 or 49-22-202.
(5) (a)  "Regular full-time employee" means an employee whose term of
employment for a participating employer contemplates continued employment
during a fiscal or calendar year and whose employment normally requires an
average of 20 hours or more per week, except as modified by the board, and who
receives benefits normally provided by the participating employer.
(b)  "Regular full-time employee" includes:
(i)  a teacher whose term of employment for a participating employer
contemplates continued employment during a school year and who teaches half-
time or more;
(ii)  a classified school employee whose employment normally requires an
average of 20 hours per week or more for a participating employer, regardless
of benefits provided;
(iii)  an officer, elective or appointive, who earns during the first full
month of the term of office $500 or more, indexed as of January 1, 1990, as
provided in Section 49-22-309;
(iv)  a faculty member or employee of an institution of higher education who
is considered full-time by that institution of higher education; and
(v)  an individual who otherwise meets the definition of this Subsection (5)
who performs services for a participating employer through a professional
employer organization or similar arrangement.
(c)  "Regular full-time employee" does not include:
(i)  a firefighter service employee as defined in Section 49-23-102; or
(ii)  a public safety service employee as defined in Section 49-23-102.
(6)  "System" means the New Public Employees' Tier II Contributory Retirement
System created under this chapter.
(7)  "Years of service credit" means:
(a)  a period, consisting of 12 full months as determined by the board;
(b)  a period determined by the board, whether consecutive or not, during
which a regular full-time employee performed services for a participating
employer, including any time the regular full-time employee was absent on a
paid leave of absence granted by a participating employer or was absent in the
service of the United States government on military duty as provided by this
chapter; or
(c)  the regular school year consisting of not less than eight months of full-
time service for a regular full-time employee of an educational institution.
