63K-3-201.   Emergency Management Administration Council created -- Function -- Composition -- Expenses.

(1)  There is created the Emergency Management Administration Council to provide advice and coordination for state and local government agencies on government emergency prevention, mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery actions and activities.

(2)  The council shall meet at the call of the chair, but at least quarterly.

(3)  The council shall be made up of the:

(a)  lieutenant governor, or the lieutenant governor's designee;

(b)  attorney general, or the attorney general's designee;

(c)  heads of the following state agencies, or their designees:

(i)  Department of Public Safety;

(ii)  Division of Homeland Security;

(iii)  Department of Transportation;

(iv)  Department of Health;

(v)  Department of Environmental Quality;

(vi)  Department of Community and Economic Development; and

(vii)  Department of Natural Resources;

(d)  adjutant general of the National Guard or the adjutant general's designee;

(e)  commissioner of agriculture and food or the commissioner's designee;

(f)  two representatives with expertise in emergency management appointed by the Utah League of Cities and Towns;

(g)  two representatives with expertise in emergency management appointed by the Utah Association of Counties;

(h)  up to four additional members with expertise in homeland security, critical infrastructure, or key resources as these terms are defined under 6 U.S. Code Section 101 appointed from the private sector, by the chair of the council; and

(i)  two representatives appointed by the Utah Emergency Management Association.

(4)  The commissioner of Public Safety and the lieutenant governor shall serve as co-chairs of the council.

(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(6)  The council shall coordinate with existing emergency management related entities including:

(a)  the Homeland Security Regional Committees established by the Department of Public Safety;

(b)  the Statewide Mutual Aid Committee established under Section 53-2-503; and

(c)  the Hazardous Chemical Emergency Response Commission designated under Section 63K-3-301.

(7)  The council may establish other committees and task forces as determined necessary by the council to carry out the duties of the council.

