31A-9-501.   Merger and consolidation of fraternals.
(1)  Subject to compliance with Chapter 16, any two or more domestic
fraternals may merge or consolidate under the provisions of Subsections (3)
and (4).
(2)  Subject to compliance with Chapter 16, any two or more domestic and
nondomestic fraternals may merge or consolidate under the provisions of
Subsection (5).
(3)  In addition to complying with Chapter 16, the supreme governing body of
each domestic fraternal proposing to merge or consolidate shall:
(a)  at least 60 days prior to the proposed action, submit the text of the
proposed contract to its members as provided in Subsection 31A-9-213 (4);
(b)  approve the proposed consolidation or merger by a two-thirds vote; and
(c)  file with the commissioner:
(i)  a certified copy of the written contract containing in full the terms and
conditions of the consolidation or merger;
(ii)  a sworn statement by the president and secretary or corresponding
officers of each fraternal showing the financial condition of each on a date
fixed by the commissioner, but no earlier than the December 31 of the year
preceding the proposed contract; and
(iii)  evidence of compliance with Subsections (3) (a) and (b).
(4)  The commissioner shall issue a certificate approving the merger or
consolidation, upon a finding that all of the following conditions exist:
(a)  The contract conforms to the provisions of this chapter.
(b)  The parties to the proposed contract have complied with the provisions of
Subsection (3).
(c)  The proposed contract is equitable to the members of each fraternal.
(5)  When a nondomestic fraternal is a party to the proposed contract, the
parties shall follow the procedure for domestic fraternals under Subsections
(3) and (4).  However, the commissioner may not issue a certificate of
compliance until the parties file a certificate that the proposed contract has
been approved in the manner provided by the laws of the jurisdiction under
which the fraternal is incorporated, or, if those laws contain no procedure
for approval, that the proposed contract has been approved by the commissioner
of insurance for that jurisdiction.
(6)  The merger or consolidation is effective when the commissioner issues a
certificate of approval.
(7)  When the merger or consolidation is effective, the surviving or new
fraternal has all the assets and is liable for all of the obligations of each
of the participating fraternals.
