57-16-3.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Amenities" means the following physical, recreational or social facilities located at a mobile home park:

(a)  a club house;

(b)  a park;

(c)  a playground;

(d)  a swimming pool;

(e)  a hot tub;

(f)  a tennis court; or

(g)  a basketball court.

(2)  "Change of use" means a change of the use of a mobile home park, or any part of it, for a purpose other than the rental of mobile home spaces.

(3)  "Fees" means other charges incidental to a resident's tenancy including, but not limited to, late fees, charges for pets, charges for storage of recreational vehicles, charges for the use of park facilities, and security deposits.

(4)  "Mobile home" means a transportable structure in one or more sections with the plumbing, heating, and electrical systems contained within the unit, which when erected on a site, may be used with or without a permanent foundation as a family dwelling.

(5)  "Mobile home park" means any tract of land on which two or more mobile home spaces are leased, or offered for lease or rent, to accommodate mobile homes for residential purposes.

(6)  "Mobile home space" means a specific area of land within a mobile home park designed to accommodate one mobile home.

(7)  "Rent" means charges paid for the privilege of occupying a mobile home space, and may include service charges and fees.

(8)  "Resident" means an individual who leases or rents space in a mobile home park.

(9)  "Service charges" means separate charges paid for the use of electrical and gas service improvements which exist at a mobile home space, or for trash removal, sewage and water, or any combination of the above.

(10)  "Settlement discussion expiration" means:

(a)  the resident has failed to give a written notice of dispute within the period specified in Subsection 57-16-4.1(2); or

(b)  the resident and management of the mobile home park have met together under Subsection 57-16-4.1(3) but were unsuccessful in resolving the dispute in their meeting.

