57-16-4.   Termination of lease or rental agreement -- Required contents of
lease -- Increases in rents or fees -- Sale of homes -- Notice regarding
planned reduction or restriction of amenities.
(1)  A mobile home park or its agents may not terminate a lease or rental
agreement upon any ground other than as specified in this chapter.
(2)  Each agreement for the lease of mobile home space shall be written and
signed by the parties.
(3)  Each lease shall contain at least the following information:
(a)  the name and address of the mobile home park owner and any persons
authorized to act for the owner, upon whom notice and service of process may
be served;
(b)  the type of the leasehold, whether it be term or periodic, and, in leases
entered into on or after May 6, 2002, a conspicuous disclosure describing the
protection a resident has under Subsection (1) against unilateral termination
of the lease by the mobile home park except for the causes described in
Section 57-16-5;
(c) (i)  a full disclosure of all rent, service charges, and other fees
presently being charged on a periodic basis; and
(ii)  a full disclosure of utility infrastructure owned by the mobile home
park owner or its agent that is maintained through service charges and fees
charged by the mobile home park owner or its agent;
(d)  the date or dates on which the payment of rent, fees, and service charges
are due; and
(e)  all rules that pertain to the mobile home park that, if broken, may
constitute grounds for eviction, including, in leases entered into on or after
May 6, 2002, a conspicuous disclosure regarding:
(i)  the causes for which the mobile home park may terminate the lease as
described in Section 57-16-5; and
(ii)  the resident's rights to:
(A)  terminate the lease at any time without cause, upon giving the notice
specified in the resident's lease; and
(B)  advertise and sell the resident's mobile home.
(4) (a)  Increases in rent or fees for periodic tenancies are unenforceable
until 60 days after notice of the increase is mailed to the resident.
(b)  If service charges are not included in the rent, the mobile home park
may:
(i)  increase service charges during the leasehold period after giving notice
to the resident; and
(ii)  pass through increases or decreases in electricity rates to the
resident.
(c)  Annual income to the park for service charges may not exceed the actual
cost to the mobile home park of providing the services on an annual basis.
(d)  In determining the costs of the services, the mobile home park may
include maintenance costs related to those utilities that are part of the
service charges.
(e)  The mobile home park may not alter the date on which rent, fees, and
service charges are due unless the mobile home park provides a 60-day written
notice to the resident before the date is altered.
(5) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(b), a rule or condition of a
lease that purports to prevent or unreasonably limit the sale of a mobile home
belonging to a resident is void and unenforceable.
(b)  The mobile home park:
(i)  may reserve the right to approve the prospective purchaser of a mobile
home who intends to become a resident;
(ii)  may not unreasonably withhold that approval;
(iii)  may require proof of ownership as a condition of approval; or
(iv)  may unconditionally refuse to approve any purchaser of a mobile home who
does not register before purchasing the mobile home.
(6)  If all of the conditions of Section 41-1a-116 are met, a mobile home park
may request the names and addresses of the lienholder or owner of any mobile
home located in the park from the Motor Vehicle Division.
(7) (a)  A mobile home park may not restrict a resident's right to advertise
for sale or to sell a mobile home.
(b)  A mobile home park may limit the size of a "for sale" sign affixed to the
mobile home to not more than 144 square inches.
(8)  A mobile home park may not compel a resident who wishes to sell a mobile
home to sell it, either directly or indirectly, through an agent designated by
the mobile home park.
(9)  A mobile home park may require that a mobile home be removed from the
park upon sale if:
(a)  the mobile home park wishes to upgrade the quality of the mobile home
park; and
(b)  the mobile home either does not meet minimum size specifications or is in
a rundown condition or is in disrepair.
(10)  Within 30 days after a mobile home park proposes reducing or restricting
amenities, the mobile home park shall:
(a)  schedule at least one meeting for the purpose of discussing the proposed
restriction or reduction of amenities with residents; and
(b)  provide at least ten days advance written notice of the date, time,
location, and purposes of the meeting to each resident.
(11)  If a mobile home park uses a single-service meter, the mobile home park
owner shall include a full disclosure on a resident's utility bill of the
resident's utility charges.
(12)  The mobile home park shall have a copy of this chapter posted at all
times in a conspicuous place in the mobile home park.
