4-14-2.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Active ingredient" means an ingredient that:
(a)  prevents, destroys, repels, controls, or mitigates pests; or
(b)  acts as a plant regulator, defoliant, or desiccant.
(2)  "Adulterated pesticide" means a pesticide with a strength or purity that
is below the standard of quality expressed on the label under which it is
offered for sale.
(3)  "Animal" means all vertebrate or invertebrate species.
(4)  "Beneficial insect" means an insect that is:
(a)  an effective pollinator of plants;
(b)  a parasite or predator of pests; or
(c)  otherwise beneficial.
(5)  "Defoliant" means a substance or mixture intended to cause leaves or
foliage to drop from a plant, with or without causing abscission.
(6)  "Desiccant" means a substance or mixture intended to artificially
accelerate the drying of plant or animal tissue.
(7)  "Distribute" means to offer for sale, sell, barter, ship, deliver for
shipment, receive, deliver, or offer to deliver pesticides in this state.
(8)  "Environment" means all living plants and animals, water, air, land, and
the interrelationships that exist between them.
(9) (a)  "Equipment" means any type of ground, water, or aerial equipment or
contrivance using motorized, mechanical, or pressurized power to apply a
pesticide.
(b)  "Equipment" does not mean any pressurized hand-sized household apparatus
used to apply a pesticide or any equipment or contrivance used to apply a
pesticide that is dependent solely upon energy expelled by the person making
the pesticide application.
(10)  "EPA" means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
(11)  "FIFRA" means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.
(12) (a)  "Fungus" means a nonchlorophyll-bearing thallophyte or a
nonchlorophyll-bearing plant of an order lower than mosses and liverworts,
including rust, smut, mildew, mold, yeast, and bacteria.
(b)  "Fungus" does not include fungus existing on or in:
(i)  a living person or other animal; or
(ii)  processed food, beverages, or pharmaceuticals.
(13)  "Insect" means an invertebrate animal generally having a more or less
obviously segmented body:
(a)  usually belonging to the Class Insecta, comprising six-legged, usually
winged forms, including beetles, bugs, bees, and flies; and
(b)  allied classes of arthropods that are wingless usually having more than
six legs, including spiders, mites, ticks, centipedes, and wood lice.
(14)  "Label" means any written, printed, or graphic matter on, or attached
to, a pesticide or a container or wrapper of a pesticide.
(15) (a)  "Labeling" means all labels and all other written, printed, or
graphic matter:
(i)  accompanying a pesticide or equipment; or
(ii)  to which reference is made on the label or in literature accompanying a
pesticide or equipment.
(b)  "Labeling" does not include any written, printed, or graphic matter
created by the EPA, the United States Departments of Agriculture or Interior,
the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, state experimental stations,
state agricultural colleges, and other federal or state institutions or
agencies authorized by law to conduct research in the field of pesticides.
(16)  "Land" means land, water, air, and plants, animals, structures,
buildings, contrivances, and machinery appurtenant or situated thereon,
whether fixed or mobile, including any used for transportation.
(17)  "Misbranded" means any label or labeling that is false or misleading or
that does not strictly comport with the label and labeling requirements set
forth in Section 4-14-4.
(18)  "Misuse" means use of any pesticide in a manner inconsistent with its
label or labeling.
(19)  "Nematode" means invertebrate animals of the Phylum Nemathelminthes and
Class Nematoda, including unsegmented round worms with elongated, fusiform, or
saclike bodies covered with cuticle, also known as nemas or eelworms.
(20) (a)  "Pest" means:
(i)  any insect, rodent, nematode, fungus, weed; or
(ii)  any other form of terrestrial or aquatic plant or animal life, virus,
bacteria, or other microorganism that is injurious to health or to the
environment or that the department declares to be a pest.
(b)  "Pest" does not include:
(i)  viruses, bacteria, or other microorganisms on or in a living person or
other living animal; or
(ii)  protected wildlife species identified in Section 23-13-2 that are
regulated by the Division of Wildlife Resources in accordance with Sections
23-14-1 through 23-14-3.
(21)  "Pesticide" means any:
(a)  substance or mixture of substances including a living organism that is
intended to prevent, destroy, control, repel, attract, or mitigate any insect,
rodent, nematode, snail, slug, fungus, weed, or other form of plant or animal
life that is normally considered to be a pest or that the commissioner
declares to be a pest;
(b)  any substance or mixture of substances intended to be used as a plant
regulator, defoliant, or desiccant;
(c)  any spray adjuvant, such as a wetting agent, spreading agent, deposit
builder, adhesive, or emulsifying agent with deflocculating properties of its
own used with a pesticide to aid its application or effect; and
(d)  any other substance designated by the department by rule.
(22)  "Pesticide applicator" is a person who:
(a)  applies or supervises the application of a pesticide; and
(b)  is required by this chapter to have a license.
(23) (a)  "Pesticide applicator business" means an entity that:
(i)  is authorized to do business in this state; and
(ii)  offers pesticide application services.
(b)  "Pesticide applicator business" does not include an individual licensed
agricultural applicator who may work for hire.
(24)  "Pesticide dealer" means any person who distributes restricted use
pesticides.
(25) (a)  "Plant regulator" means any substance or mixture intended, through
physiological action, to accelerate or retard the rate of growth or rate of
maturation, or otherwise alter the behavior of ornamental or crop plants.
(b)  "Plant regulator" does not include plant nutrients, trace elements,
nutritional chemicals, plant inoculants, or soil amendments.
(26)  "Restricted use pesticide" means:
(a)  a pesticide, including a highly toxic pesticide that is a serious hazard
to beneficial insects, animals, or land; or
(b)  any pesticide or pesticide use restricted by the administrator of EPA or
by the commissioner.
(27)  "Weed" means any plant that grows where not wanted.
(28)  "Wildlife" means all living things that are neither human, domesticated,
nor pests.
