4-14-3.   Registration required for distribution -- Application -- Fees --
Renewal -- Local needs registration -- Distributor or applicator license --
Fees -- Renewal.
(1) (a)  No person may distribute a pesticide in this state that is not
registered with the department.
(b)  Application for registration shall be made to the department upon forms
prescribed and furnished by it accompanied with an annual registration fee
determined by the department pursuant to Subsection 4-2-2(2) for each
pesticide registered.
(c)  Upon receipt by the department of a proper application and payment of the
appropriate fee, the commissioner shall issue a registration to the applicant
allowing distribution of the registered pesticide in this state through June
30 of each year, subject to suspension or revocation for cause.
(d) (i)  Each registration is renewable for a period of one year upon the
payment of an annual registration renewal fee in an amount equal to the
current applicable original registration fee.
(ii)  Each renewal fee shall be paid on or before June 30 of each year.
(2)  The application shall include the following information:
(a)  the name and address of the applicant and the name and address of the
person whose name will appear on the label, if other than the applicant's
name;
(b)  the name of the pesticide;
(c)  a complete copy of the label which will appear on the pesticide; and
(d)  any information prescribed by rule of the department considered necessary
for the safe and effective use of the pesticide.
(3) (a)  Forms for the renewal of registration shall be mailed to registrants
at least 30 days before their registration expires.
(b)  A registration in effect on June 30 for which a renewal application has
been filed and the registration fee tendered shall continue in effect until
the applicant is notified either that the registration is renewed or that it
is suspended or revoked pursuant to Section 4-14-8.
(4)  The department may, before approval of any registration, require the
applicant to submit the complete formula of any pesticide including active and
inert ingredients and may also, for any pesticide not registered according to
7 U.S.C. Sec. 136a or for any pesticide on which restrictions are being
considered, require a complete description of all tests and test results that
support the claims made by the applicant or the manufacturer of the pesticide.
(5)  A registrant who desires to register a pesticide to meet special local
needs according to 7 U.S.C. Sec. 136v(c) shall, in addition to complying with
Subsections (1) and (2), satisfy the department that:
(a)  a special local need exists;
(b)  the pesticide warrants the claims made for it;
(c)  the pesticide, if used in accordance with commonly accepted practices,
will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on the environment; and
(d)  the proposed classification for use conforms with 7 U.S.C. Sec. 136a(d).
(6)  No registration is required for a pesticide distributed in this state
pursuant to an experimental use permit issued by the EPA or under Section
4-14-5.
(7)  No pesticide dealer may distribute a restricted use pesticide in this
state without a license.
(8)  A person must receive a license before applying:
(a)  a restricted use pesticide; or
(b)  a general use pesticide for hire or in exchange for compensation.
(9) (a)  A license to engage in an activity listed in Subsection (7) or (8)
may be obtained by:
(i)  submitting an application on a form provided by the department;
(ii)  paying the license fee determined by the department according to
Subsection 4-2-2(2); and
(iii)  complying with the rules adopted as authorized by this chapter.
(b)  A person may apply for a license that expires on December 31:
(i)  of the calendar year in which the license is issued; or
(ii)  of the second calendar year after the calendar year in which the license
is issued.
(c) (i)  Notwithstanding Section 63J-1-504, the department shall retain the
fees as dedicated credits and may only use the fees to administer and enforce
this chapter.
(ii)  The Legislature may annually designate the revenue generated from the
fee as nonlapsing in an appropriations act.
