4-14-8.   Suspension or revocation -- Grounds -- Stop sale, use, or removal order authorized -- Court action -- Procedure -- Award of costs authorized.

(1) The department may revoke or suspend the registration of any pesticide upon satisfactory evidence that the registrant has used fraudulent or deceptive practices in the registration of the pesticide or in its distribution in this state.

(2)  The department may issue a "stop sale, use, or removal order" to the owner or distributor of any designated pesticide or lot of pesticide which it finds or has reason to believe is being offered or exposed for sale in violation of this chapter. The order shall be in writing and no pesticide subject to it shall be moved, offered, or exposed for sale, except upon the subsequent written release by the department. Before a release is issued, the department may require the owner or distributor of the "stopped" pesticide or lot to pay the expense incurred by the department in connection with the withdrawal of the product from the market.

(3)  The department is authorized in a court of competent jurisdiction to seek an order of seizure or condemnation of a pesticide which violates this chapter or, upon proper grounds, to obtain a temporary restraining order or permanent injunction to prevent the violation of this chapter. No bond shall be required of the department in an injunctive proceeding brought under this section.

(4)  If condemnation is ordered, the pesticide or equipment shall be disposed of as the court directs; provided, that in no event shall it order condemnation without giving the registrant or other person an opportunity to apply to the court for permission to relabel, reprocess, or otherwise bring the pesticide into conformance, or for permission to remove it from the state.

(5)  If the court orders condemnation, court costs, fees, storage, and other costs shall be awarded against the claimant of the pesticide or equipment.



Enacted by Chapter 2, 1979 General Session

