4-14-10.   Pesticide Committee created -- Composition -- Terms --
Compensation -- Duties.
(1)  There is created a Pesticide Committee comprising nine persons appointed
by the governor to four-year terms of office, one member from each of the
following state agencies and organizations:
(a)  Utah State Agricultural Extension Service;
(b)  Department of Agriculture and Food;
(c)  Department of Health;
(d)  Division of Wildlife Resources;
(e)  Department of Environmental Quality;
(f)  Utah Pest Control Association;
(g)  agricultural chemical industry;
(h)  Utah Farmers Union; and
(i)  Utah Farm Bureau Federation.
(2)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (1), the governor shall,
at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to
ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that approximately
half of the committee is appointed every two years.
(3)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(4)  The committee shall elect one of its members to serve as chair.  The
chair is responsible for the call and conduct of meetings of the Pesticide
Committee.
(5)  Attendance of a simple majority of the members constitutes a quorum for
the transaction of official business.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Higher education members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties from
the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Higher education members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(7)  The Pesticide Committee shall make recommendations to the commissioner
regarding making rules pertaining to the sale, distribution, use, and disposal
of pesticides.
