4-14-13.   Registration required for a pesticide business.
(1)  A pesticide applicator business shall register with the department by:
(a)  submitting an application on a form provided by the department;
(b)  paying the registration fee; and
(c)  certifying that the business is in compliance with this chapter and
departmental rules authorized by this chapter.
(2) (a)  By following the procedures and requirements of Section 63J-1-504,
the department shall establish a registration fee based on the number of
pesticide applicators employed by the pesticide applicator business.
(b) (i)  Notwithstanding Section 63J-1-504, the department shall deposit the
fees as dedicated credits and may only use the fees to administer and enforce
this chapter.
(ii)  The Legislature may annually designate the revenue generated from the
fee as nonlapsing in an appropriations act.
(3) (a)  The department shall issue a pesticide applicator business a
registration certificate if the pesticide applicator business:
(i)  has complied with the requirements of this section; and
(ii)  meets the qualifications established by rule.
(b)  The department shall notify the pesticide applicator business in writing
that the registration is denied if the pesticide applicator business does not
meet the registration qualifications.
(4)  A registration certificate expires on December 31 of the second calendar
year after the calendar year in which the registration certificate is issued.
(5) (a)  The department may suspend a registration certificate if the
pesticide applicator business violates this chapter or any rules authorized by
it.
(b)  A pesticide applicator business whose registration certificate has been
suspended may apply to the department for reinstatement of the registration
certificate by demonstrating compliance with this chapter and rules authorized
by it.
(6)  A pesticide applicator business shall:
(a)  only employ a pesticide applicator who has received a license from the
department, as required by Section 4-14-3; and
(b)  ensure that all employees comply with this chapter and the rules
authorized by it.
