63J-8-103.   State participation in managing public lands.

In view of the requirement in FLPMA, 43 U.S.C. Sec. 1712, that BLM must work through a planning process that is coordinated with other federal, state, and local planning efforts before making decisions about the present and future uses of public lands, the requirement in FLPMA, 43 U.S.C. Sec. 1714 that BLM may not withdraw or otherwise designate BLM lands for specific purposes without congressional approval, and the requirement in the Forest Service Multiple-Use Sustained Yield Act of 1960, 16 U.S.C. Sec. 528, that lands within the national forests be managed according to the principles of multiple use, and in view of the right which FLPMA, the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 4321 et seq. and the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. Appendix 2, give to state and local governments to participate in all BLM and Forest Service efforts to plan for the responsible use of BLM and Forest Service lands and the requirement that BLM and the Forest Service coordinate planning efforts with those of state and local government, the state adopts the following policy for the management of the subject lands:

(1)  Pursuant to the proper allocation of governmental authority between the several states and the federal government, the implementation of congressional acts concerning the subject lands must recognize the concurrent jurisdiction of the states and accord full recognition to state interpretation of congressional acts, as reflected in state law, plans, programs, and policies, insofar as the interpretation does not violate the Supremacy Clause, U.S. Constitution, Article VI, Clause 2.

(2)  Differences of opinion between the state's plans and policies on use of the subject lands and any proposed decision concerning the subject lands pursuant to federal planning or other federal decision making processes should be mutually resolved between the authorized federal official, including federal officials from other federal agencies advising the authorized federal official in any capacity, and the governor of Utah.

(3)  The subject lands managed by the BLM are to be managed to the basic standard of the prevention of undue and unnecessary degradation of the lands, as required by FLPMA.  A more restrictive management standard should not apply except through duly adopted statutory or regulatory processes wherein each specific area is evaluated pursuant to the provisions of the BLM's planning process and those of the National Environmental Policy Act.

(4)  The subject lands should not be segregated into separate geographical areas for management that resembles the management of wilderness, wilderness study areas, wildlands, lands with wilderness characteristics, or the like.

(5)  The BLM and the Forest Service should make plans for the use of the subject lands and resources subject to their management pursuant to statutorily authorized processes, with due regard for the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act, by:

(a)  recognizing that the duly adopted Resource Management Plan or Forest Service equivalent is the fundamental planning document, which may be revised or amended from time to time;

(b)  avoiding and eliminating any form of guidance or policy that has the effect of prescreening, segregating, or imposing any form of management requirements upon any of the subject lands and resources prior to any of the planning processes subject to Subsection (5)(a); and

(c)  avoiding and eliminating all forms of planning that parallel or duplicate the planning processes subject to Subsection (5)(a).

