53C-4-102.   Sale of trust lands -- Fair market value -- Determination of
sale -- Advertising proposed sales -- Sale procedures -- Defaults.
(1)  Trust lands may not be sold for less than the fair market value.
(2) (a)  The director shall determine whether disposal or retention of all or
a portion of a property interest in trust lands is in the best interest of the
trust.
(b)  When it is determined that the disposal of an interest in trust lands is
in the best interest of the applicable trust, the transaction shall be
accomplished in an orderly and timely manner.
(3)  The director shall advertise any proposed sale, lease, or exchange of an
interest in trust lands in a reasonable manner consistent with the director's
fiduciary responsibilities.
(4) (a)  Any tract of trust land may be subdivided and sold, leased, or
exchanged in accordance with a plan or other action designating the land to be
subdivided that is approved by the director.
(b)  The director may survey the tract and direct its subdivision.
(c)  A plat of the survey shall be filed with the county recorder of the
county in which the land is located and with the administration.
(5)  Sale conditions, including qualification of prospective purchasers, shall
be in accordance with accepted mortgage lending and real estate practices.
(6)  Upon the sale of land, the director shall issue to the purchaser a
certificate of sale which describes the land purchased and states the amount
paid, the amount due, and the time when the principal and interest will become
due.
(7)  Upon payment in full of principal and interest and the surrender of the
original certificate of sale for any tract of land sold, or payment in full of
any amounts required to be paid for the partial release of property, the
governor, or the governor's designee, shall issue a patent to the purchaser,
heir, assignee, successor in interest, or other grantee as determined by the
director.
(8) (a)  If a purchaser of trust lands defaults in the payment of any
installment of principal or interest due under the terms of the contract of
sale, the director shall notify the purchaser that if the default is not
corrected within 30 days after issuance of the notice the director shall
proceed with any remedy which the administration may pursue under law or the
contract of sale.
(b)  The notice shall be sent by registered or certified mail to the purchaser
at the latest address as shown by the records of the administration.
(c)  If the default is not corrected by compliance with the requirements of
the notice of default within the time provided by the notice, the director may
pursue any available remedy under the contract of sale, including forfeiture.
(d)  If forfeited lands are sold again to the same purchaser, the sale may be
made by a new and independent contract without regard to the forfeited
agreement.
