57-1-29.   Proceeds of trustee's sale -- Disposition.
(1) (a)  The trustee shall apply the proceeds of a trustee's sale in the
following order:
(i)  first, to the costs and expenses of exercising the power of sale and of
the sale, including the payment of the trustee's and attorney fees actually
incurred not to exceed any amount provided for in the trust deed;
(ii)  second, to payment of the obligation secured by the trust deed; and
(iii) (A)  the balance, if any, to the person or persons legally entitled to
the proceeds; or
(B)  the trustee, in the trustee's discretion, may deposit the balance of the
proceeds with the clerk of the district court of the county in which the sale
took place.
(b)  If the proceeds are deposited with the clerk of the district court, the
trustee shall file an affidavit with the clerk setting forth the facts of the
deposit and a list of all known claimants, including known addresses.
(c)  Upon depositing the balance and filing the affidavit, the trustee is
discharged from all further responsibility and the clerk shall deposit the
proceeds with the state treasurer subject to the order of the district court.
(2)  The clerk shall give notice of the deposited funds to all claimants
listed in the trustee's affidavit within 15 days of receiving the affidavit of
deposit from the trustee.
(3) (a)  Any claimant may file a petition for adjudication of priority to the
funds.
(b)  A petitioner requesting funds under Subsection (3)(a) shall give notice
of the petition to all claimants listed in the trustee's affidavit and to any
other claimants known to the petitioner.
(c)  The petitioner's notice under Subsection (3)(b) shall specify that all
claimants have 45 days to contest the petition by affidavit or counter-
petition.
(d)  If no affidavit or counter-petition is filed within 45 days of the notice
required by Subsection (3)(c), the court shall, without a hearing, enter an
order directing the clerk of the court or the county treasurer to disburse the
funds to the petitioner according to the petition.
(4) (a)  If a petition for adjudication is contested by affidavit or counter-
petition, the district court shall, within 20 days, conduct a hearing to
establish the priorities of the parties to the deposited funds and give notice
to all known claimants of the date and time of the hearing.
(b)  At a hearing under Subsection (4)(a), the court shall establish the
priorities of the parties to the deposited funds and enter an order directing
the clerk of the court or county treasurer to disburse the funds according to
the court's determination.
(5)  A person having or claiming to have an interest in the disposition of
funds deposited with the court under Subsection (1) who fails to appear and
assert the person's claim is barred from any claim to the funds after the
entry of the court's order under Subsection (4).
