57-1-31.5.   Reinstatement or payoff statement -- Timeliness of request --
Trustee's duty to provide statement -- Statement to include accounting of
costs and fees.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Approved delivery method" means delivery by:
(i)  certified or registered United States mail with return receipt requested;
or
(ii)  a nationally recognized letter or package delivery or courier service
operating in the state that provides a service for:
(A)  tracking the delivery of an item; or
(B)  documenting:
(I)  that the item was received by the intended recipient; or
(II)  a refusal to accept delivery of the item.
(b)  "Compensation" means anything of economic value that is paid, loaned,
granted, given, donated, or transferred to a trustee for or in consideration
of:
(i)  services;
(ii)  personal or real property; or
(iii)  other thing of value.
(c)  "Interested party" means a person with a right under Subsection
57-1-31(1) to reinstate an obligation secured by a trust deed.
(d)  "Payoff statement" means a statement under Subsection (2) that an
interested party requests in order to obtain the amount required to pay off a
loan secured by a trust deed.
(e)  "Reinstatement statement" means a statement under Subsection (2) that an
interested party requests in order to obtain the amount required under
Subsection 57-1-31(1) to reinstate an obligation secured by a trust deed.
(2) (a) (i)  An interested party may submit a written request to a trustee for
a statement of the amount required to be paid:
(A)  to reinstate an obligation secured by a trust deed; or
(B)  to pay off a loan secured by a trust deed.
(ii) (A)  A request for a reinstatement statement is not timely unless the
trustee receives the request at least 10 business days before expiration of
the three-month period under Section 57-1-31 to reinstate an obligation.
(B)  A request for a payoff statement is not timely unless the trustee
receives the request at least 10 business days before the trustee's sale.
(iii)  An interested party submitting a reinstatement statement or payoff
statement to a trustee shall submit the statement to the trustee:
(A)  at the address specified in the trust deed for notices to the trustee; or
(B)  at an alternate address approved by the trustee for delivery of mail or
notices.
(iv)  A trustee is considered to have received a request submitted under
Subsection (2)(a)(i) if:
(A)  the interested party submitted the request through an approved delivery
method; and
(B)  documentation provided under the approved delivery method indicates that:
(I)  the request was delivered to the trustee; or
(II)  delivery of the request was refused.
(b) (i)  A trustee who receives a written request under Subsection (2)(a)
shall provide the statement to the interested party.
(ii)  A trustee is considered to have provided the statement requested under
Subsection (2)(a) on the date that the trustee deposits the statement with an
approved delivery method:
(A)  with all delivery costs prepaid; and
(B)  addressed to the interested party at the address provided in the request.
(c) (i)  If the trustee provides a requested reinstatement statement later
than five business days after the request is received, the time to reinstate
under Section 57-1-31 is tolled from the date of the request to the date that
the trustee provides the statement.
(ii)  If, after scheduling a trustee's sale, the trustee fails to provide a
requested payoff statement within five business days after the request is
received, the trustee shall:
(A)  cancel the trustee's sale; or
(B)  postpone the trustee's sale to a date at least 10 business days after the
trustee provides the statement.
(3)  A trustee shall include with each statement required under Subsection
(2)(a):
(a)  a detailed listing of any of the following that the trustor would be
required to pay to reinstate or payoff the loan:
(i)  attorney fees;
(ii)  trustee fees; or
(iii)  any costs including:
(A)  title fees;
(B)  publication fees; or
(C)  posting fees; and
(b)  subject to Subsection (4), a disclosure of:
(i)  any relationship that the trustee has with a third party that provides
services related to the foreclosure of the loan; and
(ii)  whether the relationship described in Subsection (3)(b)(i) is created
by:
(A)  an ownership interest in the third party; or
(B)  contract or other agreement.
(4)  Subsection (3)(b) does not require a trustee to provide a trustor:
(a)  a copy of any contract or agreement described in Subsection (3)(b);
(b)  specific detail as to the nature of the ownership interest described in
Subsection (3)(b); or
(c)  the amount of compensation the trustee receives related to the
foreclosure of the loan under a relationship described in Subsection (3)(b).
