4-38-10.   Race meets -- Licenses -- Fairs.

(1)  Each person making application for a license to hold a race meet under this chapter shall file an application with the commission which shall set forth the time, place, and number of days the race meet will continue, and other information the commission may require.

(2)  A person who has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude may not be issued a license to hold a race meet.

(3) (a)  The license issued shall specify the kind and character of the race meet to be held, the number of days the race meet shall continue, and the number of races per day.

(b)  The licensee shall pay in advance of the scheduled race meet to the commission a fee of not less than $25. If unforeseen obstacles arise which prevent the holding or completion of any race meet, the license fee held may be refunded to the licensee if the commission considers the reason for failure to hold or complete the race meet sufficient.

(4) (a)  Any unexpired license held by any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or who fails to pay to the commission any fees required under this chapter, shall be subject to cancellation and revocation by the commission.

(b)  This cancellation shall be made only after a summary hearing before the commission, of which seven days notice in writing shall be given the licensee, specifying the grounds for the proposed cancellation. At the hearing, the licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard in opposition to the proposed cancellation.

(5) (a)  Fair boards or fair districts that conduct race meets in connection with regularly scheduled annual fairs shall be exempt from payment of the fees provided in this section, unless they sponsor a race in which the speed indexes are officially recognized under breed requirements.

(b)  All fair boards and fair meets shall be limited to 14 race days, unless otherwise permitted by a unanimous vote of the commission.

(6)  The exemption from the payment of fees under Subsection (5)(a) does not apply to those qualifying for official speed index races.

