53A-9-103.   Authorized components.

Career ladders may include the following components:

(1) (a) An extended contract year for teachers, providing for additional paid nonteaching days beyond the regular school year for curriculum development and other professional development activities.

(b)  School boards may approve individual exceptions to the extended year contract.

(2) At the option of the local school board, an extended contract year for teachers, providing for additional paid workdays beyond the regular school year for teaching assignments in summer school, remedial, disabled, specialized, applied technology, gifted and talented, and adult education programs.

(3) A fair and consistent procedure:

(a)  for selecting teachers who will be given additional responsibilities; and

(b)  which incorporates clearly stated job descriptions and qualifications for each level on the career ladder.

(4) (a) A program of differentiated staffing that provides additional compensation and, as appropriate, additional extensions of the contract year, for those who assume additional instruction-related responsibilities such as:

(i)  assisting students and mentoring beginning teachers;

(ii)  curriculum and lesson plan development;

(iii)  helping established teachers improve their teaching skills;

(iv)  volunteer training;

(v)  planning;

(vi)  facilities and productivity improvements; and

(vii)  educational assignments directed at establishing positive relationships with the community, businesses, and parents.

(b)  Administrative and extracurricular activities are not considered additional instruction-related activities under this Subsection (4).

(5) (a) A well defined program of evaluation and mentoring for beginning teachers, consistent with Subsections 53A-1a-104(7) and 53A-6-102(2)(a) and (b), designed to assist those teachers during provisional years of teaching to acquire and demonstrate the skills required of capable, successful teachers.

(b)  Continuation in teaching from year to year shall be contingent upon satisfactory teaching performance.

(6) A clear and concise explanation of the evaluation system components, including the respective roles of parents, teachers, administrators, and the school board in the development of the evaluation system and provisions for frequent, comprehensive evaluations of teachers with less than three years' teaching experience and periodic evaluations of other teachers consistent with Subsections 53A-1a-104(7) and 53A-6-102(2)(a) and (b).

(7) (a) A program of advancement on the career ladder contingent upon effective teaching performance, evidence of which may include formal evaluation and assessment of student progress.

(b)  Student progress shall play a significant role in teacher evaluation.

(c)  Other criteria may include formal preparation and successful teaching experience.

(8) An assessment of implementation costs.

(9) A plan for periodic review of the career ladder, including the makeup of the reviewing entity, procedures to be followed during review, and the time schedule for the review.

