17-2-106.   Effect of consolidation.
(1)  All territory included within the boundaries of the originating county
becomes, upon consolidation, the territory of the consolidating county.
(2)  The precincts and school districts existing in the originating county
continue and become precincts and school districts in the consolidating county
and remain as then organized until changed in the manner provided by law, and
the officers of those precincts and school districts hold their respective
offices until the expiration of the applicable terms.
(3)  The ownership of all property, both real and personal, held and owned by
the originating county at the time of consolidation is vested in the
consolidating county.
(4)  The terms of all county officers in the originating county terminate and
cease on the day the consolidation takes effect, and those officers shall
immediately deliver to the corresponding officers of the consolidating county
all books, records, and papers of the originating county.
(5)  Any person who is confined under lawful commitment in the county jail of
the originating county, or otherwise lawfully held to answer for alleged
violation of any of the criminal laws of this state, shall be immediately
delivered to the sheriff of the consolidating county, and such person shall be
confined in its county jail for the unexpired term of the sentence or held as
specified in the commitment.
(6) (a)  All criminal proceedings pending in the originating county shall be
prosecuted to judgment and execution in the consolidating county.
(b)  All offenses committed in the originating county before consolidation
that have not been prosecuted shall be prosecuted in the consolidating county.
(7)  All actions, proceedings, and matters pending in the district court of
the originating county may be proceeded with in the district court of the
consolidating county.
(8)  All indebtedness of the originating county are transferred to and become
the indebtedness of the consolidating county with the same effect as if it had
been incurred by the consolidating county.
