63C-8-103.   Medical Education Council.
(1)  There is created the Medical Education Council consisting of the
following members appointed by the governor:
(a)  the dean of the school of medicine at the University of Utah;
(b)  a person who represents graduate medical education at the University of
Utah;
(c)  a person from each institution, other than the University of Utah, that
sponsors an accredited clinical education program;
(d)  a person from the health care insurance industry; and
(e)  three members of the general public who are not employed by or affiliated
with any institution that offers, sponsors, or finances health care or medical
education; however, the governor may appoint an additional member of the
public under this Subsection (1)(e) for each person the governor appoints that
increases the total number of persons appointed under Subsection (1)(c) beyond
two.
(2)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(a) and (b), no two council members
may be employed by or affiliated with the same:
(a)  institution of higher education;
(b)  state agency outside of higher education; or
(c)  private entity.
(3)  The dean of the school of medicine at the University of Utah:
(a)  shall chair the council;
(b)  may not be counted in determining the existence of a quorum; and
(c)  may only cast a vote on a matter before the council if the vote of the
other council members results in a tied vote.
(4)  The council shall annually elect a vice chair from among the members of
the council.
(5) (a)  Consistent with Subsection (6)(b), a majority of the council members
constitute a quorum.
(b)  The action of a majority of a quorum is the action of the council.
(6) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (6)(b), members are appointed to
four-year terms of office.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (6)(a), the governor shall, at the time of the
initial appointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of
council members are staggered so that approximately half of the council is
appointed every two years.
(c)  If a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed by the governor for the unexpired term in the same manner
as the original appointment was made.
(7) (a)  Per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of official duties
may be paid at the rates established by the Division of Finance under Section
63A-3-106 and Section 63A-3-107 to a council member:
(i)  who is not a government employee; or
(ii)  who is a government employee, but does not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the council member's employing unit for service to the council.
(b)  A council member may decline to receive per diem and expenses for service
to the council.
