49-21-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Date of disability" means the date on which a period of continuous
disability commences, and may not commence on or before the last day of actual
work.
(2)  "Elimination period" means the three months at the beginning of each
continuous period of total disability for which no benefit will be paid.  The
elimination period begins on the nearest first day of the month from the date
of disability.  The elimination period may include a one-time trial return to
work period of less than 15 consecutive calendar days.
(3) (a)  "Eligible employee" means:
(i)  any regular full-time employee as defined under Section 49-12-102 or
49-13-102, public safety service employee as defined under Section 49-14-102
or 49-15-102, or judge as defined under Section 49-17-102 or 49-18-102, whose
employer provides coverage under this chapter, or the governor of the state;
and
(ii)  an employee who is covered by a retirement program offered by the
Teachers' Insurance and Annuity Association of America, if the employee's
employer provides coverage under this chapter; and
(b)  "Eligible employee" does not include any employee that is exempt from
coverage under Section 49-21-201.
(4)  "Maximum benefit period" means the maximum period of time the monthly
disability income benefit will be paid under Section 49-21-403 for any
continuous period of total disability.
(5)  "Monthly disability benefit" means the monthly payments and accrual of
service credit under Section 49-21-401.
(6)  "Objective medical impairment" means an impairment resulting from an
injury or illness which is diagnosed by a physician and which is based on
accepted objective medical tests or findings rather than subjective
complaints.
(7)  "Physician" means a licensed physician.
(8)  "Regular monthly salary" means the amount certified by the participating
employer as the monthly salary of the eligible employee, unless there is a
discrepancy between the certified amount and the amount actually paid, in
which case the office shall determine the regular monthly salary.
(9)  "Regular occupation" means either the primary duties performed by the
eligible employee for the twelve months preceding the date of disability, or a
permanent assignment of duty to the eligible employee.
(10)  "Rehabilitative employment" means any occupation or employment for wage
or profit, for which the eligible employee is reasonably qualified to perform
based on education, training, or experience.
(11) (a)  "Total disability" or "totally disabled" means the complete
inability, due to objective medical impairment, whether physical or mental, to
engage in the eligible employee's regular occupation during the elimination
period and the first 24 months of disability benefits.
(b)  "Total disability" means, after the elimination period and the first 24
months of disability benefits, the complete inability, based solely on
physical objective medical impairment, to engage in any gainful occupation
which is reasonable, considering the eligible employee's education, training,
and experience.
