49-21-401.   Disability benefits -- Application -- Eligibility.
(1)  An eligible employee shall apply for long-term disability benefits under
this chapter by:
(a)  completing an application form prepared by the office;
(b)  signing a consent form allowing the office access to the eligible
employee's medical records; and
(c)  providing any documentation or information reasonably requested by the
office.
(2)  Upon request by the office, the participating employer of the eligible
employee shall provide to the office documentation and information concerning
the eligible employee.
(3)  The office shall review all relevant information and determine whether or
not the eligible employee is totally disabled.
(4)  If the office determines that the eligible employee is totally disabled
due to accidental bodily injury or physical illness which is not the result of
the performance of an employment duty, the eligible employee shall receive a
monthly disability benefit equal to 2/3 of the eligible employee's regular
monthly salary, for each month the total disability continues beyond the
elimination period, not to exceed the maximum benefit period.
(5)  If the office determines that the eligible employee is totally disabled
due to psychiatric illness, the eligible employee shall receive:
(a)  a maximum of two years of monthly disability benefits equal to 2/3 of the
eligible employee's regular monthly salary for each month the total disability
continues beyond the elimination period;
(b)  a maximum of $10,000 for psychiatric expenses, including rehabilitation
expenses preauthorized by the office's consultants, paid during the period of
monthly disability benefits; and
(c)  payment of monthly disability benefits according to contractual
provisions for a period not to exceed five years if the eligible employee is
institutionalized due to psychiatric illness.
(6)  If the office determines that the eligible employee is totally disabled
due to a physical injury resulting from external force or violence as a result
of the performance of an employment duty, the eligible employee shall receive
a monthly disability benefit equal to 100% of the eligible employee's regular
monthly salary, for each month the total disability continues beyond the
elimination period, not to exceed the maximum benefit period.
(7) (a)  Successive periods of disability are considered as a continuous
period of disability if the period of disability:
(i)  results from the same or related causes;
(ii)  is separated by less than six months of continuous full-time work at the
individual's usual place of employment; and
(iii)  commences while the individual is an eligible employee covered by this
chapter.
(b)  The inability to work for a period of less than 15 consecutive calendar
days is not considered as a period of disability.
(c)  If Subsection (7)(a) or (b) does not apply, successive periods of
disability are considered as separate periods of disability.
(8)  The office may, at any time, have any eligible employee claiming
disability examined by a physician chosen by the office to determine if the
eligible employee is totally disabled.
(9)  A claim brought by an eligible employee for long-term disability benefits
under the Public Employee's Long-Term Disability Program is barred if it is
not commenced within one year from the eligible employee's date of disability,
unless the office determines that under the surrounding facts and
circumstances, the eligible employee's failure to comply with the time
limitations was reasonable.
(10)  Medical or psychiatric conditions which existed prior to eligibility may
not be a basis for disability benefits until the eligible employee has had one
year of continuous eligibility in the Public Employees Long-Term Disability
Program.
(11)  If there is a valid benefit protection contract, service credit shall
accrue during the period of total disability, unless the disabled eligible
employee is exempted from a system, or is otherwise ineligible for service
credit.
(12)  Regardless of any medical evidence provided by the employee to support
the application for disability, an employee is not eligible for long-term
disability benefits during any period in which the employee:
(a)  makes a claim that the employee is able to work; or
(b)  has a pending action in a court or before any state or local
administrative body in which the employee has made a claim that the employee
is able to work.
(13)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 49-11-618, upon written
request by an employer, information obtained under this part may, upon an
order of a court or an administrative law judge, be released to an employer
who is a party in an action under Subsection (12).
