17B-1-105.   Name of local district -- Name change.
(1) (a)  The name of each local district created on or after May 1, 2000 shall
comply with Subsection 17-50-103(2)(a).
(b)  The board of each local district affected by Subsection 17-50-103(2)(b)
shall ensure that after January 1, 2005 the local district name complies with
the requirements of that Subsection.
(2)  The name of a local district created after April 30, 2007 may not include
the name of a county or municipality.
(3)  The name of a local district may include words descriptive of the type of
service that the district provides.
(4) (a)  A local district board may change the name of that local district as
provided in this Subsection (4).
(b)  To initiate a name change, the local district board shall:
(i) hold a public hearing on the proposed name change;
(ii) adopt a resolution approving the name change; and
(iii)  file with the lieutenant governor a notice of an impending name change,
as defined in Section 67-1a-6.7, that meets the requirements of Subsection
67-1a-6.7(3).
(c)  Upon the lieutenant governor's issuance of a certificate of name change
under Section 67-1a-6.7, the local district board shall:
(i)  if the local district is located within the boundary of a single county,
submit to the recorder of that county:
(A)  the original:
(I)  notice of an impending name change; and
(II)  certificate of name change; and
(B)  a certified copy of the resolution approving the name change; or
(ii)  if the local district is located within the boundaries of more than a
single county:
(A)  submit to the recorder of one of those counties:
(I)  the original of the documents listed in Subsections (4)(c)(i)(A)(I) and
(II); and
(II)  a certified copy of the resolution approving the name change; and
(B)  submit to the recorder of each other county:
(I)  a certified copy of the documents listed in Subsections (4)(c)(i)(A)(I)
and (II); and
(II)  a certified copy of the resolution approving the name change.
(d) (i)  A name change under this Subsection (4) becomes effective upon the
lieutenant governor's issuance of a certificate of name change under Section
67-1a-6.7.
(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(d)(i), the local district may not operate
under the new name until the documents listed in Subsection (4)(c) are
recorded in the office of the recorder of each county in which the local
district is located.
