17B-1-118.   Local district hookup fee -- Preliminary design or site plan
from a specified public agency.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Hookup fee" means a fee for the installation and inspection of any pipe,
line, meter, or appurtenance to connect to a local district water, sewer,
storm water, power, or other utility system.
(b)  "Impact fee" has the same meaning as defined in Section 11-36-102.
(c)  "Specified public agency" means:
(i)  the state;
(ii)  a school district; or
(iii)  a charter school.
(d)  "State" includes any department, division, or agency of the state.
(2)  A local district may not impose or collect a hookup fee that exceeds the
reasonable cost of installing and inspecting the pipe, line, meter, or
appurtenance to connect to the local district water, sewer, storm water,
power, or other utility system.
(3) (a)  A specified public agency intending to develop its land shall submit
a development plan and schedule to each local district from which the
specified public agency anticipates the development will receive service:
(i)  as early as practicable in the development process, but no later than the
commencement of construction; and
(ii)  with sufficient detail to enable the local district to assess:
(A)  the demand for public facilities listed in Subsections 11-36-102(13)(a),
(b), (c), (d), (e), and (g) caused by the development;
(B)  the amount of any hookup fees, or impact fees or substantive equivalent;
(C)  any credit against an impact fee; and
(D)  the potential for waiving an impact fee.
(b)  The local district shall respond to a specified public agency's
submission under Subsection (3)(a) with reasonable promptness in order to
allow the specified public agency to consider information the local district
provides under Subsection (3)(a)(ii) in the process of preparing the budget
for the development.
(4)  Upon a specified public agency's submission of a development plan and
schedule as required in Subsection (3) that complies with the requirements of
that subsection, the specified public agency vests in the local district's
hookup fees and impact fees in effect on the date of submission.
