17B-1-506.   Withdrawal petition requirements.
(1)  Each petition under Section 17B-1-504 shall:
(a)  indicate the typed or printed name and current address of each owner of
acre-feet of water, property owner, registered voter, or authorized
representative of the governing body signing the petition;
(b)  separately group signatures by municipality and, in the case of
unincorporated areas, by county;
(c)  if it is a petition signed by the owners of land, the assessment of which
is based on acre-feet of water, indicate the address of the property and the
property tax identification parcel number of the property as to which the
owner is signing the request;
(d)  designate up to three signers of the petition as sponsors, or in the case
of a petition filed under Subsection 17B-1-504(1)(a)(iv), designate a
governmental representative as a sponsor, and in each case, designate one
sponsor as the contact sponsor with the mailing address and telephone number
of each;
(e)  state the reasons for withdrawal; and
(f)  when the petition is filed with the local district board of trustees, be
accompanied by a map generally depicting the boundaries of the area proposed
to be withdrawn and a legal description of the area proposed to be withdrawn.
(2) (a)  The local district may prepare an itemized list of expenses, other
than attorney expenses, that will necessarily be incurred by the local
district in the withdrawal proceeding.  The itemized list of expenses may be
submitted to the contact sponsor.  If the list of expenses is submitted to the
contact sponsor within 21 days after receipt of the petition, the contact
sponsor on behalf of the petitioners shall be required to pay the expenses to
the local district within 90 days of receipt.  Until funds to cover the
expenses are delivered to the local district, the district will have no
obligation to proceed with the withdrawal and the time limits on the district
stated in this part will be tolled.  If the expenses are not paid within the
90 days, or within 90 days from the conclusion of any arbitration under
Subsection (2)(b), the petition requesting the withdrawal shall be considered
to have been withdrawn.
(b)  If there is no agreement between the board of trustees of the local
district and the contact sponsor on the amount of expenses that will
necessarily be incurred by the local district in the withdrawal proceeding,
either the board of trustees or the contact sponsor may submit the matter to
binding arbitration in accordance with Title 78B, Chapter 6, Part 2,
Alternative Dispute Resolution Act; provided that, if the parties cannot agree
upon an arbitrator and the rules and procedures that will control the
arbitration, either party may pursue arbitration under Title 78B, Chapter 11,
Utah Uniform Arbitration Act.
(3)  A signer of a petition may withdraw or, once withdrawn, reinstate the
signer's signature at any time before the public hearing under Section
17B-1-508 by submitting a written withdrawal or reinstatement with the board
of trustees of the local district in which the area proposed to be withdrawn
is located.
(4)  If it reasonably appears that, if the withdrawal which is the subject of
a petition filed under Subsection 17B-1-504(1)(a)(i) or (ii) is granted, it
will be necessary for a municipality to provide to the withdrawn area the
service previously supplied by the local district, the board of trustees of
the local district may, within 21 days after receiving the petition, notify
the contact sponsor in writing that, before it will be considered by the board
of trustees, the petition must be presented to and approved by the governing
body of the municipality as provided in Subsection 17B-1-504(1)(a)(iv) before
it will be considered by the local district board of trustees.  If the notice
is timely given to the contact sponsor, the petition shall be considered to
have been withdrawn until the municipality files a petition with the local
district under Subsection 17B-1-504(1)(a)(iv).
(5) (a)  After receiving the notice required by Subsection 17B-1-504(2),
unless specifically allowed by law, a public entity may not make expenditures
from public funds to support or oppose the gathering of signatures on a
petition for withdrawal.
(b)  Nothing in this section prohibits a public entity from providing factual
information and analysis regarding a withdrawal petition to the public, so
long as the information grants equal access to both the opponents and
proponents of the petition for withdrawal.
(c)  Nothing in this section prohibits a public official from speaking,
campaigning, contributing personal money, or otherwise exercising the public
official's constitutional rights.
