17B-1-601.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Appropriation" means an allocation of money by the board of trustees for
a specific purpose.
(2)  "Budget" means a plan of financial operations for a fiscal year which
embodies estimates of proposed expenditures for given purposes and the
proposed means of financing them, and may refer to the budget of a particular
fund for which a budget is required by law or it may refer collectively to the
budgets for all such funds.
(3)  "Budget officer" means the person appointed by the local district board
of trustees to prepare the budget for the district.
(4)  "Budget year" means the fiscal year for which a budget is prepared.
(5)  "Calendar year entity" means a local district whose fiscal year begins
January 1 and ends December 31 of each calendar year as described in Section
17B-1-602.
(6)  "Current year" means the fiscal year in which a budget is prepared and
adopted, which is the fiscal year next preceding the budget year.
(7)  "Deficit" has the meaning given under generally accepted accounting
principles as reflected in the Uniform Accounting Manual for Local Districts.
(8)  "Estimated revenue" means the amount of revenue estimated to be received
from all sources during the budget year in each fund for which a budget is
being prepared.
(9)  "Financial officer" means the official under Section 17B-1-642.
(10)  "Fiscal year" means the annual period for accounting for fiscal
operations in each district.
(11)  "Fiscal year entity" means a local district whose fiscal year begins
July 1 of each year and ends on June 30 of the following year as described in
Section 17B-1-602.
(12)  "Fund" has the meaning given under generally accepted accounting
principles as reflected in the Uniform Accounting Manual for Local Districts.
(13)  "Fund balance" has the meaning given under generally accepted accounting
principles as reflected in the Uniform Accounting Manual for Local Districts.
(14)  "Governmental funds" means the general fund, special revenue fund, debt
service fund, and capital projects fund of a local district.
(15)  "Interfund loan" means a loan of cash from one fund to another, subject
to future repayment.  It does not constitute an expenditure or a use of
retained earnings or fund balance of the lending fund or revenue to the
borrowing fund.
(16)  "Last completed fiscal year" means the fiscal year next preceding the
current fiscal year.
(17)  "Proprietary funds" means enterprise funds and the internal service
funds of a local district.
(18)  "Public funds" means any money or payment collected or received by an
officer or employee of a local district acting in an official capacity and
includes money or payment to the officer or employee for services or goods
provided by the district, or the officer or employee while acting within the
scope of employment or duty.
(19)  "Retained earnings" has the meaning given under generally accepted
accounting principles as reflected in the Uniform Accounting Manual for Local
Districts.
(20)  "Special fund" means any local district fund other than the local
district's general fund.
