17B-1-629.   Operating and capital budgets.

(1) (a) As used in this section, "operating and capital budget" means a plan of financial operation for a proprietary or other required special fund, embodying estimates of operating resources and expenses and other outlays for a fiscal year.

(b)  Except as otherwise expressly provided, the reference to "budget" or "budgets" and the procedures and controls relating to them in other sections of this part do not apply or refer to the "operating and capital budgets" provided for in this section.

(2)  On or before the time the board of trustees adopts budgets for the governmental funds under Section 17B-1-605, it shall adopt for the ensuing year an operating and capital budget for each proprietary fund and shall adopt the type of budget for other special funds which is required by the Uniform Accounting Manual for Local Districts.

(3)  Operating and capital budgets shall be adopted and administered in the following manner:

(a) (i)  On or before the first regularly scheduled meeting of the board of trustees, in November for calendar year entities and May for fiscal year entities, the budget officer shall prepare for the ensuing fiscal year, and file with the board of trustees, a tentative operating and capital budget for each proprietary fund and for other required special funds, together with specific work programs and any other supporting data required by the board.

(ii)  If, within any proprietary fund, allocations or transfers that are not reasonable allocations of costs between funds are included in a tentative budget, a written notice of the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing shall be mailed to utility fund customers at least seven days before the hearing.

(iii)  The purpose portion of the notice required under Subsection (3)(a)(ii) shall identify:

(A)  the enterprise utility fund from which money is being transferred;

(B)  the amount being transferred; and

(C)  the fund to which the money is being transferred.

(b) (i)  The board of trustees shall review and consider the tentative budgets at any regular meeting or special meeting called for that purpose.

(ii)  The board of trustees may make any changes in the tentative budgets that it considers advisable.

(c)  Budgets for proprietary or other required special funds shall comply with the public hearing requirements established in Sections 17B-1-609 and 17B-1-610.

(d) (i)  The board of trustees shall adopt an operating and capital budget for each proprietary fund for the ensuing fiscal year before the beginning of each fiscal year, except as provided in Sections 59-2-919 through 59-2-923.

(ii)  A copy of the budget as finally adopted for each proprietary fund shall be certified by the budget officer and filed by the officer in the district office and shall be available to the public during regular business hours.

(iii)  A copy of the budget shall also be filed with the state auditor within 30 days after adoption.

(e) (i)  Upon final adoption, the operating and capital budget is in effect for the budget year, subject to later amendment.

(ii)  During the budget year, the board of trustees may, in any regular meeting or special meeting called for that purpose, review any one or more of the operating and capital budgets for the purpose of determining if the total of any of them should be increased.

(iii)  If the board of trustees decides that the budget total of one or more of these proprietary funds should be increased, the board shall follow the procedures established in Section 17B-1-630.

(f)  Expenditures from operating and capital budgets shall conform to the requirements relating to budgets specified in Sections 17B-1-617 through 17B-1-620.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 329, 2007 General Session

