17B-1-702.   Local districts to submit budgets.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), within 30 days after it is
approved by the board, and at least 30 days before the board adopts a final
budget, the board of each local district with an annual budget of $50,000 or
more shall send a copy of its tentative budget and notice of the time and
place for its budget hearing to:
(i)  each of its constituent entities that has in writing requested a copy;
and
(ii)  to each of its customer agencies that has in writing requested a copy.
(b)  Within 30 days after it is approved by the board, and at least 30 days
before the board adopts a final budget, the board of trustees of a public
transit district serving a population of more than 200,000 people shall send a
copy of its tentative budget and notice of the time and place for its budget
hearing to:
(i)  each of its constituent entities;
(ii) each of its customer agencies that has in writing requested a copy;
(iii)  the governor; and
(iv)  the Legislature.
(c)  The local district shall include with the tentative budget a signature
sheet that includes:
(i)  language that the constituent entity or customer agency received the
tentative budget and has no objection to it; and
(ii)  a place for the chairperson or other designee of the constituent entity
or customer agency to sign.
(2)  Each constituent entity and each customer agency that receives the
tentative budget shall review the tentative budget submitted by the district
and either:
(a)  sign the signature sheet and return it to the district; or
(b)  attend the budget hearing or other meeting scheduled by the district to
discuss the objections to the proposed budget.
(3) (a)  If any constituent entity or customer agency that received the
tentative budget has not returned the signature sheet to the local district
within 15 calendar days after the tentative budget was mailed, the local
district shall send a written notice of the budget hearing to each constituent
entity or customer agency that did not return a signature sheet and invite
them to attend that hearing.
(b)  If requested to do so by any constituent entity or customer agency, the
local district shall schedule a meeting to discuss the budget with the
constituent entities and customer agencies.
(c)  At the budget hearing, the local district board shall:
(i)  explain its budget and answer any questions about it;
(ii)  specifically address any questions or objections raised by the
constituent entity, customer agency, or those attending the meeting; and
(iii)  seek to resolve the objections.
(4)  Nothing in this part prevents a local district board from approving or
implementing a budget over any or all constituent entity's or customer
agency's protests, objections, or failure to respond.
