35A-9-304.   Intergenerational Poverty Advisory Committee -- Creation -- Duties.

(1)  To assist the commission, there is created the Intergenerational Poverty Advisory Committee.

(2)  The advisory committee shall be composed of no more than 11 members.

(3)  Members of the advisory committee shall be appointed by the chair of the commission, with the approval of the commission, and shall include at least one member from each of the following groups:

(a)  advocacy groups that focus on childhood poverty issues;

(b)  advocacy groups that focus on education issues;

(c)  academic experts in childhood poverty or education issues;

(d)  faith-based organizations that address childhood poverty or education issues; and

(e)  local government representatives that address childhood poverty or education issues.

(4)  Subject to Subsection (5), each member of the advisory committee shall be appointed for a four-year term unless a member is appointed to complete an unexpired term.

(5)  The commission chair may adjust the length of term at the time of appointment or reappointment so that approximately half of the advisory committee is appointed every two years.

(6)  The commission chair may remove an advisory committee member:

(a)  if the member is unable or unwilling to carry out the member's assigned responsibilities; or

(b)  for good cause.

(7)  If a vacancy occurs in the advisory committee membership for any reason, a replacement may be appointed for the unexpired term.

(8)  The commission chair shall select a chair of the advisory committee on an annual basis.

(9)  A majority of the advisory committee constitutes a quorum of the advisory committee at any meeting and the action of the majority of members present are the action of the advisory committee.

(10)  The advisory committee shall:

(a)  meet at least twice a year at the request of the commission chair or the chair of the advisory committee;

(b)  make recommendations to the commission on how the commission and the state can effectively address the needs of children affected by intergenerational poverty and achieve the purposes and duties of the commission as described in Section 35A-9-303; and

(c)  ensure that the advisory committee's recommendations to the commission are supported by verifiable data.

(11)  The Department of Workforce Services shall provide staff support to the advisory committee.



Enacted by Chapter 59, 2013 General Session

