31A-25-205.   Financial responsibility.
(1)  Every person licensed under this chapter shall maintain an insurance
policy or surety bond:
(a) (i)  while licensed; and
(ii)  for one year after the person is licensed; and
(b)  issued:
(i)  by an authorized insurer;
(ii)  in an amount specified under Subsection (2); and
(iii)  on a policy or contract form that is acceptable under Subsection (3).
(2) (a)  Insurance policies or surety bonds satisfying the requirement of
Subsection (1) shall be in a face amount equal to:
(i)  at least the greater of:
(A)  10% of the total funds handled by the administrator; or
(B)  $5,000; and
(ii)  may not exceed $500,000.
(b)  In fixing the policy or bond face amount under Subsection (2)(a), the
total funds handled is:
(i)  the greater of:
(A)  the premiums received during the previous calendar year; or
(B)  claims paid through the administrator during the previous calendar year;
or
(ii)  if no funds were handled during the preceding year, the total funds
reasonably anticipated to be handled by the administrator during the current
calendar year.
(c)  This section does not prohibit any person dealing with the administrator
from requiring, by contract, insurance coverage in amounts greater than the
insurance coverage required under this section.
(3) (a)  Insurance policies or surety bonds issued to satisfy Subsection (1)
shall:
(i)  be on forms approved by the commissioner; and
(ii)  require the insurer to pay, up to the policy or bond face amount, any
judgment:
(A)  obtained by participants in or beneficiaries of plans administered by the
insured licensee; and
(B)  that arises from the negligence or culpable acts of the licensee or any
employee or agent of the licensee in connection with the activities of a third
party administrator as defined in Section 31A-1-301.
(b)  The commissioner may require that policies or bonds issued to satisfy the
requirements of this section require the insurer to give the commissioner 20
day prior notice of policy cancellation.
(4)  The commissioner shall establish annual reporting requirements and forms
to monitor compliance with this section.
(5)  This section may not be construed as limiting any cause of action an
insured would otherwise have against the insurer.
