32A-9-106 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Operational restrictions.
Each person granted a warehousing license and the employees and management of
the licensee shall abide by the following conditions and requirements.
Failure to comply may result in a suspension or revocation of the license, or
other disciplinary action taken against individual employees or management
personnel:
(1)  All liquor warehoused in this state and sold to out-of-state consignees,
shall be transported out of the state only by a motor carrier regulated under
Title 72, Chapter 9, Motor Carrier Safety Act.
(2)  All liquor warehoused in this state and sold to the department shall be
transported by  motor carriers approved by the department.
(3)  All liquor transported to or from the licensee's premises shall be
carried in sealed conveyances that are made available for inspection by the
department while en route within the state.
(4)  A licensee may not ship, convey, distribute, or remove liquor from any
warehouse in less than full case lots.
(5)  A licensee may not ship, convey, distribute, or remove any liquor from a
warehouse to any consignee outside the state that is not licensed as a liquor
wholesaler or retailer by the state in which the consignee is domiciled.
(6)  A licensee may not receive, warehouse, ship, distribute, or convey any
liquor that the commission has not authorized the licensee to handle through
its warehouse.
(7)  Each licensee shall maintain accounting and other records and documents
as the department may require.  Any licensee or person acting for the
licensee, who knowingly forges, falsifies, alters, cancels, destroys,
conceals, or  removes the entries in any of the books of account or other
documents of the licensee required to be made, maintained, or preserved by
this title or the rules of the commission for the purpose of deceiving the
commission or the department, or any of their officials or employees, is
subject to the immediate suspension or revocation of the license and possible
criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.
(8) A liquor warehousing license may not be transferred from one location to
another, without prior written approval of the commission.
(9) (a)  A liquor warehousing licensee may not sell, transfer, assign,
exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the license to any
other person, whether for monetary gain or not.
(b)  A liquor warehousing license has no monetary value for the purpose of any
type of disposition.
