73-28-103.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Board" means the Board of Water Resources.

(2)  "Committee" means the Project Management Committee created in Section 73-28-105.

(3) (a)  "Construction costs" means all costs related to the construction of the project, including the environmental mitigation costs.

(b)  Construction costs include:

(i)  acquisition of land and rights-of-way;

(ii)  board and division expenses related to the project;

(iii)  compensation for impairment of existing water rights;

(iv)  construction of the project;

(v)  design;

(vi)  engineering;

(vii)  environmental studies;

(viii)  legal work;

(ix)  permitting;

(x)  planning; and

(xi)  rebuilding and relocating highways or other facilities affected by the project.

(4)  "Developed water" means surface water developed by the project.

(5)  "District" means:

(a)  the Central Iron County Water Conservancy District;

(b)  the Kane County Water Conservancy District;

(c)  the Washington County Water Conservancy District; or

(d)  any combination of those districts listed in Subsections (5)(a) through (c).

(6)  "Division" means the Division of Water Resources.

(7)  "Environmental mitigation costs" means costs associated with obtaining permits required by federal, state, or local governmental agencies.

(8)  "Preconstruction costs" means any of the following costs incurred before project construction begins:

(a)  planning;

(b)  design;

(c)  engineering studies;

(d)  legal work;

(e)  permitting;

(f)  acquisition of land and rights-of-way;

(g)  compensation for impairment of existing water rights;

(h)  environmental studies; or

(i)  any combination of Subsections (8)(a) through (h).

(9) (a)  "Project" means the Lake Powell Pipeline project and associated facilities, including:

(i)  facilities associated with environmental mitigation;

(ii)  hydroelectric generating works and incidental electrical facilities;

(iii)  pipelines; and

(iv)  pumping stations.

(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (9)(a), associated facilities do not include the local facilities necessary for the treatment and local delivery of the developed water.

(10)  "Project costs" include preconstruction costs, construction costs, and project operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement costs.



Enacted by Chapter 216, 2006 General Session

