9-1-803.   Creation -- Members -- Appointment -- Terms -- Vacancies -- Per diem and expenses.

(1)  There is created the Utah Commission on Service and Volunteerism consisting of 19 voting members and one nonvoting member.

(2)  The 19 voting members of the commission are:

(a)  the lieutenant governor;

(b)  the commissioner of higher education or the commissioner's designee;

(c)  the state superintendent of public instruction or the superintendent's designee;

(d)  the executive director of the Department of Heritage and Arts or the executive director's designee;

(e)  nine members appointed by the governor as follows:

(i)  an individual with expertise in the educational, training, and developmental needs of youth, particularly disadvantaged youth;

(ii)  an individual with experience in promoting the involvement of older adults in volunteer service;

(iii)  a representative of a community-based agency or organization within the state;

(iv)  a representative of local government;

(v)  a representative of a local labor organization in the state;

(vi)  a representative of business;

(vii)  an individual between the ages of 16 and 25 who participates in a volunteer or service program;

(viii)  a representative of a national service program; and

(ix)  a representative of the volunteer sector; and

(f)  six members appointed by the governor from among the following groups:

(i)  local educators;

(ii)  experts in the delivery of human, educational, cultural, environmental, or public safety services to communities and individuals;

(iii)  representatives of Native American tribes;

(iv)  representatives of organizations that assist out-of-school youth or other at-risk youth; or

(v)  representatives of entities that receive assistance under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, 42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.

(3)  The nonvoting member of the commission is the state representative of the corporation.

(4) (a)  In appointing persons to serve on the commission, the governor shall ensure that:

(i)  no more than 10 voting members of the commission are members of the same political party; and

(ii)  no more than five voting members of the commission are state government employees.

(b)  In appointing persons to serve on the commission, the governor shall strive for balance on the commission according to race, ethnicity, age, gender, and disability characteristics.

(5) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (5)(b), as terms of current commission members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a three-year term.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (5)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of commission members are staggered so that approximately one-third of the commission is appointed every year.

(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(7)  A member appointed by the governor may not serve more than two consecutive terms.

(8)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 38, 2013 General Session

