4-24-4.   Livestock Brand Board created -- Composition -- Terms -- Removal -- Quorum for transaction of business -- Compensation -- Duties.

(1)  There is created the Livestock Brand Board consisting of seven members appointed by the governor as follows:

(a)  four cattle ranchers recommended by the Utah Cattlemen's Association, one of whom shall be a feeder operator;

(b)  one dairyman recommended by the Utah Dairymen's Association;

(c)  one livestock market operator recommended jointly by the Utah Cattlemen's Association and the Utah Dairymen's Association and the Livestock Market Association; and

(d)  one horse breeder recommended by the Utah Horse Council.

(2)  If a nominee is rejected by the governor, the recommending association shall submit another nominee.

(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current board members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately half of the board is appointed every two years.

(4) (a)  A member may, at the discretion of the governor, be removed at the request of the association that recommended the appointment.

(b)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(5)  One member elected by the board shall serve as chair for a term of one year and be responsible for the call and conduct of meetings of the Livestock Brand Board.  Attendance of a simple majority of the members at a duly called meeting shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of official business.

(6)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(7)  The Livestock Brand Board with the cooperation of the department shall direct the procedures and policies to be followed in administering and enforcing this chapter.



Amended by Chapter 286, 2010 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 324, 2010 General Session

