72-7-102.   Excavations, structures, or objects prohibited within right-of-
way except in accordance with law -- Permit and fee requirements -- Rulemaking
-- Penalty for violation.
(1)  As used in this section, "management costs" means the reasonable, direct,
and actual costs a highway authority incurs in exercising authority over the
highways under its jurisdiction.
(2)  Except as provided in Subsection (3) and Section 54-4-15, a person may
not:
(a)  dig or excavate, within the right-of-way of any state highway, county
road, or city street; or
(b)  place, construct, or maintain any approach road, driveway, pole,
pipeline, conduit, sewer, ditch, culvert, billboard, advertising sign, or any
other structure or object of any kind or character within the right-of-way.
(3) (a)  A highway authority having jurisdiction over the right-of-way may
allow excavating, installation of utilities and other facilities or access
under rules made by the highway authority and in compliance with federal,
state, and local law as applicable.
(b) (i)  The rules may require a permit for any excavation or installation and
may require a surety bond or other security.
(ii)  The application for a permit for excavation or installation on a state
highway shall be accompanied by a fee established under Subsection (4)(f).
(iii)  The permit may be revoked and the surety bond or other security may be
forfeited for cause.
(4) (a)  Except as provided in Section 72-7-108 with respect to the department
concerning the interstate highway system, a highway authority may require
compensation from a utility service provider for access to the right-of-way of
a highway only as provided in this section.
(b)  A highway authority may recover from a utility service provider, only
those management costs caused by the utility service provider's activities in
the right-of-way of a highway under the jurisdiction of the highway authority.
(c) (i)  A fee or other compensation under this Subsection (4) shall be
imposed on a competitively neutral basis.
(ii)  If a highway authority's management costs cannot be attributed to only
one entity, the management costs shall be allocated among all privately owned
and government agencies using the highway right-of-way for utility service
purposes, including the highway authority itself.  The allocation shall
reflect proportionately the management costs incurred by the highway authority
as a result of the various utility uses of the highway.
(d)  A highway authority may not use the compensation authority granted under
this Subsection (4) as a basis for generating revenue for the highway
authority that is in addition to its management costs.
(e) (i)  A utility service provider that is assessed management costs or a
franchise fee by a highway authority is entitled to recover those management
costs.
(ii)  If the highway authority that assesses the management costs or franchise
fees is a political subdivision of the state and the utility service provider
serves customers within the boundaries of that highway authority, the
management costs may be recovered from those customers.
(f)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the department shall adopt a schedule of fees to be assessed for
management costs incurred in connection with issuing and administering a
permit on a state highway under this section.
(g)  In addition to the requirements of this Subsection (4), a
telecommunications tax or fee imposed by a municipality on a
telecommunications provider, as defined in Section 10-1-402, is subject to
Section 10-1-406.
(5)  Permit fees collected by the department under this section shall be
deposited with the state treasurer and credited to the Transportation Fund.
(6)  Nothing in this section shall affect the authority of a municipality
under:
(a)  Section 10-1-203;
(b)  Section 11-26-1;
(c)  Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 3, Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act; or
(d)  Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 4, Municipal Telecommunications License Tax
Act.
(7)  A person who violates the provisions of Subsection (2) is guilty of a
class B misdemeanor.
