72-7-402.   Limitations as to vehicle width, height, length, and load extensions.

(1) (a)  Except as provided by statute, all state or federally approved safety devices and any other lawful appurtenant devices, including refrigeration units, hitches, air line connections, and load securing devices related to the safe operation of a vehicle are excluded for purposes of measuring the width and length of a vehicle under the provisions of this part, if the devices are not designed or used for carrying cargo.

(b)  Load-induced tire bulge is excluded for purposes of measuring the width of vehicles under the provisions of this part.

(c)  Appurtenances attached to the sides or rear of a recreational vehicle that is not a commercial motor vehicle are excluded for purposes of measuring the width and length of the recreational vehicle if the additional width or length of the appurtenances does not exceed six inches.

(2)  A vehicle unladen or with a load may not exceed a width of 8-1/2 feet.

(3)  A vehicle unladen or with a load may not exceed a height of 14 feet.

(4) (a) (i)  A single-unit vehicle, unladen or with a load, may not exceed a length of 45 feet including front and rear bumpers.

(ii)  In this section, a truck tractor coupled to one or more semitrailers or trailers is not considered a single-unit vehicle.

(b) (i)  Except as provided under Subsection (4)(b)(iii), a semitrailer, unladen or with a load, may not exceed a length of 48 feet excluding refrigeration units, hitches, air line connections, and safety appurtenances.

(ii)  There is no overall length limitation on a truck tractor and semitrailer combination when the semitrailer length is 48 feet or less.

(iii)  A semitrailer that exceeds a length of 48 feet but does not exceed a length of 53 feet may operate on a route designated by the department or within one mile of that route.

(c) (i)  Two trailers coupled together, unladen or with a load, may not exceed an overall length of 61 feet, measured from the front of the first trailer to the rear of the second trailer.

(ii)  There is no overall length limitation on a truck tractor and double trailer combination when the trailers coupled together measure 61 feet or less.

(d)  All other combinations of vehicles, unladen or with a load, when coupled together, may not exceed a total length of 65 feet, except the length limitations do not apply to combinations of vehicles operated at night by a public utility when required for emergency repair of public service facilities or properties, or when operated under a permit under Section 72-7-406.

(5) (a)  Subject to Subsection (4), a vehicle or combination of vehicles may not carry any load extending more than three feet beyond the front of the body of the vehicle or more than six feet beyond the rear of the bed or body of the vehicle.

(b)  A passenger vehicle may not carry any load extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders on the right side of the vehicle.

(6)  Any exception to this section must be authorized by a permit as provided under Section 72-7-406.

(7)  Any person who violates this section is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

