72-7-409.   Loads on vehicles -- Limitations -- Confining, securing, and
fastening load required -- Penalty.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Agricultural product" means any raw product which is derived from
agriculture, including silage, hay, straw, grain, manure, and other similar
product.
(b)  "Vehicle" has the same meaning set forth in Section 41-1a-102.
(2)  A vehicle may not be operated or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is constructed or loaded to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting,
leaking, or otherwise escaping.
(3) (a)  In addition to the requirements under Subsection (2), a vehicle
carrying dirt, sand, gravel, rock fragments, pebbles, crushed base, aggregate,
any other similar material, or scrap metal shall have a covering over the
entire load unless:
(i)  the highest point of the load does not extend above the top of any
exterior wall or sideboard of the cargo compartment of the vehicle; and
(ii)  the outer edges of the load are at least six inches below the top inside
edges of the exterior walls or sideboards of the cargo compartment of the
vehicle.
(b)  In addition to the requirements under Subsection (2), a vehicle carrying
trash or garbage shall have a covering over the entire load.
(c)  The following material is exempt from the provisions of Subsection
(3)(a):
(i)  hot mix asphalt;
(ii)  construction debris or scrap metal if the debris or scrap metal is a
size and in a form not susceptible to being blown out of the vehicle;
(iii)  material being transported across a highway between two parcels of
property that would be contiguous but for the highway that is being crossed;
and
(iv)  material listed under Subsection (3)(a) that is enclosed on all sides by
containers, bags, or packaging.
(d)  A chemical substance capable of coating or bonding a load so that the
load is confined on a vehicle, may be considered a covering for purposes of
Subsection (3)(a) so long as the chemical substance remains effective at
confining the load.
(4)  Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to a vehicle or implement of
husbandry carrying an agricultural product, if the agricultural product is:
(a)  being transported in a manner which is not a hazard or a potential hazard
to the safe operation of the vehicle or to other highway users; and
(b)  loaded in a manner that only allows minimal spillage.
(5) (a)  An authorized vehicle performing snow removal services on a highway
is exempt from the requirements of this section.
(b)  This section does not prohibit the necessary spreading of any substance
connected with highway maintenance, construction, securing traction, or snow
removal.
(6)  A person may not operate a vehicle with a load on any highway unless the
load and any load covering is fastened, secured, and confined to prevent the
covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard to
the safe operation of the vehicle, or to other highway users.
(7)  Before entering a highway, the operator of a vehicle carrying any
material listed under Subsection (3), shall remove all loose material on any
portion of the vehicle not designed to carry the material.
(8) (a)  Any person who violates this section is guilty of a class B
misdemeanor.
(b)  A person who violates a provision of this section shall be fined not less
than:
(i)  $100 for a violation; or
(ii)  $250 for a second or subsequent violation within three years of a
previous violation of this section.
(c)  A person who violates a provision of this section while operating a
commercial vehicle as defined in Section 72-9-102 shall be fined:
(i)  not less than $250 for a violation; or
(ii)  $500 for a second or subsequent violation within three years of a
previous violation of this section.
