72-7-507.   Advertising -- Permits -- Application requirements -- Duration -- Fees.

(1) (a)  Outdoor advertising may not be maintained without a current permit.

(b)  Applications for permits shall be made to the department on forms furnished by it.

(c)  A permit must be obtained prior to installing each outdoor sign.

(d)  The application for a permit shall be accompanied by an initial fee established under Section 63J-1-504.

(2) (a)  Each permit issued by the department is valid for a period of up to five years and shall expire on June 30 of the fifth year of the permit, or upon the expiration or termination of the right to use the property, whichever is sooner.

(b)  Upon renewal, each permit may be renewed for periods of up to five years upon the filing of a renewal application and payment of a renewal fee established under Section 63J-1-504.

(3)  Sign owners residing outside the state shall provide the department with a continuous performance bond in the amount of $2,500.

(4)  Fees may not be prorated for fractions of the permit period.  Advertising copy may be changed at any time without payment of an additional fee.

(5) (a)  Each sign shall have its permit continuously affixed to the sign in a position visible from the nearest traveled portion of the highway.

(b)  The permit shall be affixed to the sign structure within 30 days after delivery by the department to the permit holder, or within 30 days of the installation date of the sign structure.

(c)  Construction of the sign structure shall begin within 180 days after delivery of the permit by the department to the permit holder and construction shall be completed within 365 days after delivery of the permit.

(6)  The department may not accept any applications for a permit or issue any permit to erect or maintain outdoor advertising within 500 feet of a permitted sign location except to the permit holder or the permit holder’s assigns until the permit has expired or has been terminated pursuant to the procedures under Section 72-7-508.

(7)  Permits are transferrable if the ownership of the permitted sign is transferred.

(8)  Conforming, permitted sign structures may be altered, changed, remodeled, and relocated subject to the provisions of Subsection (6).



Amended by Chapter 183, 2009 General Session

