72-7-508.   Unlawful outdoor advertising -- Adjudicative proceedings --
Judicial review -- Costs of removal -- Civil and criminal liability for
damaging regulated signs -- Immunity for Department of Transportation.
(1)  Outdoor advertising is unlawful when:
(a)  erected after May 9, 1967, contrary to the provisions of this chapter;
(b)  a permit is not obtained as required by this part;
(c)  a false or misleading statement has been made in the application for a
permit that was material to obtaining the permit; or
(d)  the sign for which a permit was issued is not in a reasonable state of
repair, is unsafe, or is otherwise in violation of this part.
(2)  The establishment, operation, repair, maintenance, or alteration of any
sign contrary to this chapter is also a public nuisance.
(3)  Except as provided in Subsection (4), in its enforcement of this section,
the department shall comply with the procedures and requirements of Title 63G,
Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(4) (a)  The district courts shall have jurisdiction to review by trial de
novo all final orders of the department under this part resulting from formal
and informal adjudicative proceedings.
(b)  Venue for judicial review of final orders of the department shall be in
the county in which the sign is located.
(5)  If the department is granted a judgment, the department is entitled to
have any nuisance abated and recover from the responsible person, firm, or
corporation, jointly and severally:
(a)  the costs and expenses incurred in removing the sign; and
(b) $100 for each day the sign was maintained following the expiration of 10
days after notice of agency action was filed and served under Section
63G-4-201.
(6) (a)  Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation who vandalizes,
damages, defaces, destroys, or uses any sign controlled under this chapter
without the owner's permission is liable to the owner of the sign for treble
the amount of damage sustained and all costs of court, including a reasonable
attorney's fee, and is guilty of a class C misdemeanor.
(b)  This Subsection (6) does not apply to the department, its agents, or
employees if acting to enforce this part.
