63A-9-301.   Motor Vehicle Review Committee -- Composition.
(1)  There is created a Motor Vehicle Review Committee to advise the division.
(2)  The committee shall be composed of nine members as follows:
(a)  the executive director of the Department of Administrative Services or
the director's designee;
(b)  a member from a state agency other than higher education, the Department
of Transportation, the Department of Public Safety, or the Department of
Natural Resources, who uses the division's services;
(c)  the director of the Division of Purchasing and General Services or the
director's designee; and
(d)  one member from:
(i)  higher education, designated annually by the executive director of the
Department of Administrative Services;
(ii)  the Department of Transportation, designated annually by the executive
director of the Department of Administrative Services;
(iii)  the Department of Public Safety, designated annually by the executive
director of the Department of Administrative Services; and
(iv)  the Department of Natural Resources, designated annually by the
executive director of the Department of Administrative Services; and
(e)  two public members with experience in fleet operations and maintenance
appointed by the governor.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), the governor shall appoint
each public member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that
the terms of public members are staggered so that one of the public members is
appointed every two years.
(c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(4) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from their agency for their service may receive per diem and expenses
incurred in the performance of their official duties from the committee at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(c) (i)  Higher education members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties from
the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Higher education members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(5)  Five members of the committee are a quorum.
(6)  The executive director of the Department of Administrative Services is
chair of the committee.
