49-20-410.   High deductible health plan -- Health savings account -- Contributions.

(1) (a)  In addition to other employee benefit plans offered under Subsection 49-20-201(1), the office shall offer at least one federally qualified high deductible health plan with a health savings account as an optional health plan.

(b)  The provisions and limitations of the plan shall be:

(i)  determined by the office in accordance with federal requirements and limitations; and

(ii)  designed to promote appropriate health care utilization by consumers, including preventive health care services.

(c)  A state employee hired on or after July 1, 2011, who is offered a plan under Subsection 49-20-202(1)(a), shall be enrolled in a federally qualified high deductible health plan unless the employee chooses a different health benefit plan during the employee's open enrollment period.

(2)  The office shall:

(a)  administer the high deductible health plan in coordination with a health savings account for medical expenses for each covered individual in the high deductible health plan; 

(b)  offer to all employees training regarding all health plans offered to employees;

(c)  prepare online training as an option for the training required by Subsections (2)(b) and (4);

(d)  ensure the training offered under Subsections (2)(b) and (c) includes information on changing coverages to the high deductible plan with a health savings account, including coordination of benefits with other insurances, restrictions on other insurance coverages, and general tax implications; and

(e)  coordinate annual open enrollment with the Department of Human Resource Management to give state employees the opportunity to affirmatively select preferences from among insurance coverage options.

(3) (a)  Contributions to the health savings account may be made by the employer.

(b)  The amount of the employer contributions under Subsection (3)(a) shall be determined annually by the office, after consultation with the Department of Human Resource Management and the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget so that the annual employer contribution amount reflects the difference in the actuarial value between the program's health maintenance organization coverage and the federally qualified high deductible health plan coverage, after taking into account any difference in employee premium contribution.

(c)  The office shall distribute the annual amount determined under Subsection (3)(b) to employees in two equal amounts with a pay date in January and a pay date in July of each plan year.

(d)  An employee may also make contributions to the health savings account.

(4)  The program shall offer a state employee and the employee's eligible dependents the option to continue coverage under the employee's high deductible health plan in place of a conversion policy under Section 31A-22-723 if:

(a)  the employee was covered by the state employee's high deductible health plan for at least the four years before the date of termination of employment;

(b)  the employee or the employee's eligible dependents have exhausted federal COBRA coverage with the same or similar state employee's high deductible health plan; and

(c)  the employee pays the premium group rate determined by the office for the coverage.

(5) (a)  An employer participating in a plan offered under Subsection 49-20-202(1)(a) shall require each employee to complete training on the health plan options available to the employee.

(b)  The training required by Subsection (5)(a):

(i)  shall include materials prepared by the office under Subsection (2);

(ii)  may be completed online; and

(iii)  shall be completed:

(A)  before the end of the 2012 open enrollment period for current enrollees in the program; and

(B)  for employees hired on or after July 1, 2011, before the employee's selection of a plan in the program.



Amended by Chapter 406, 2012 General Session

