53-3-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Cancellation" means the termination by the division of a license issued through error or fraud or for which consent under Section 53-3-211 has been withdrawn.

(2)  "Class D license" means the class of license issued to drive motor vehicles not defined as commercial motor vehicles or motorcycles under this chapter.

(3)  "Commercial driver license" or "CDL" means a license:

(a)  issued substantially in accordance with the requirements of Title XII, Pub. L. 99-570, the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1986, and in accordance with Part 4, Uniform Commercial Driver License Act, which authorizes the holder to drive a class of commercial motor vehicle; and

(b)  that was obtained by providing evidence of lawful presence in the United States with one of the document requirements described in Subsection 53-3-410(1)(i)(i).

(4) (a)  "Commercial motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle or combination of motor vehicles designed or used to transport passengers or property if the motor vehicle:

(i)  has a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 or more pounds or a lesser rating as determined by federal regulation;

(ii)  is designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver; or

(iii)  is transporting hazardous materials and is required to be placarded in accordance with 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F.

(b)  The following vehicles are not considered a commercial motor vehicle for purposes of Part 4, Uniform Commercial Driver License Act:

(i)  equipment owned and operated by the United States Department of Defense when driven by any active duty military personnel and members of the reserves and national guard on active duty including personnel on full-time national guard duty, personnel on part-time training, and national guard military technicians and civilians who are required to wear military uniforms and are subject to the code of military justice;

(ii)  vehicles controlled and driven by a farmer to transport agricultural products, farm machinery, or farm supplies to or from a farm within 150 miles of his farm but not in operation as a motor carrier for hire;

(iii)  firefighting and emergency vehicles; and

(iv)  recreational vehicles that are not used in commerce and are driven solely as family or personal conveyances for recreational purposes.

(5)  "Conviction" means any of the following:

(a)  an unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original jurisdiction or an administrative proceeding;

(b)  an unvacated forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure a person's appearance in court;

(c)  a plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court;

(d)  the payment of a fine or court costs; or

(e)  violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless of whether the penalty is rebated, suspended, or probated.

(6)  "Denial" or "denied" means the withdrawal of a driving privilege by the division to which the provisions of Title 41, Chapter 12a, Part 4, Proof of Owner's or Operator's Security, do not apply.

(7)  "Director" means the division director appointed under Section 53-3-103.

(8)  "Disqualification" means either:

(a)  the suspension, revocation, cancellation, denial, or any other withdrawal by a state of a person's privileges to drive a commercial motor vehicle;

(b)  a determination by the Federal Highway Administration, under 49 C.F.R. Part 386, that a person is no longer qualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle under 49 C.F.R. Part 391; or

(c)  the loss of qualification that automatically follows conviction of an offense listed in 49 C.F.R. Part 383.51.

(9)  "Division" means the Driver License Division of the department created in Section 53-3-103.

(10)  "Downgrade" means to obtain a lower license class than what was originally issued during an existing license cycle.

(11)  "Drive" means:

(a)  to operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle upon a highway; and

(b)  in Subsections 53-3-414(1) through (3), Subsection 53-3-414(5), and Sections 53-3-417 and 53-3-418, the operation or physical control of a motor vehicle at any place within the state.

(12) (a)  "Driver" means any person who drives, or is in actual physical control of a motor vehicle in any location open to the general public for purposes of vehicular traffic.

(b)  In Part 4, Uniform Commercial Driver License Act, "driver" includes any person who is required to hold a CDL under Part 4 or federal law.

(13)  "Driving privilege card" means the evidence of the privilege granted and issued under this chapter to drive a motor vehicle to a person whose privilege was obtained without providing evidence of lawful presence in the United States.

(14)  "Extension" means a renewal completed in a manner specified by the division.

(15)  "Farm tractor" means every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of husbandry.

(16)  "Highway" means the entire width between property lines of every way or place of any nature when any part of it is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for traffic.

(17)  "Identification card" means an identification card issued under this chapter to a person whose card was obtained by providing evidence of lawful presence in the United States with one of the document requirements described in Subsection 53-3-804(2)(i)(i).

(18)  "Indigent" means that a person's income falls below the federal poverty guideline issued annually by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services in the Federal Register.

(19)  "License" means the privilege to drive a motor vehicle.

(20) (a)  "License certificate" means the evidence of the privilege issued under this chapter to drive a motor vehicle.

(b)  "License certificate" evidence includes a:

(i)  regular license certificate;

(ii)  limited-term license certificate;

(iii)  driving privilege card;

(iv)  CDL license certificate;

(v)  limited-term CDL license certificate;

(vi)  temporary regular license certificate; and

(vii)  temporary limited-term license certificate.

(21)  "Limited-term commercial driver license" or "limited-term CDL" means a license:

(a)  issued substantially in accordance with the requirements of Title XII, Pub. L. 99-570, the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1986, and in accordance with Part 4, Uniform Commercial Driver License Act, which authorizes the holder to drive a class of commercial motor vehicle; and

(b)  that was obtained by providing evidence of lawful presence in the United States with one of the document requirements described in Subsection 53-3-410(1)(i)(ii).

(22)  "Limited-term identification card" means an identification card issued under this chapter to a person whose card was obtained by providing evidence of lawful presence in the United States with one of the document requirements described in Subsection 53-3-804(2)(i)(ii).

(23)  "Limited-term license certificate" means the evidence of the privilege granted and issued under this chapter to drive a motor vehicle to a person whose privilege was obtained providing evidence of lawful presence in the United States with one of the document requirements described in Subsection 53-3-205(8)(a)(ii)(B).

(24)  "Motorboat" has the same meaning as provided under Section 73-18-2.

(25)  "Motorcycle" means every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel with not more than three wheels in contact with the ground.

(26)  "Office of Recovery Services" means the Office of Recovery Services, created in Section 62A-11-102.

(27) (a)  "Owner" means a person other than a lienholder having an interest in the property or title to a vehicle.

(b)  "Owner" includes a person entitled to the use and possession of a vehicle subject to a security interest in another person but excludes a lessee under a lease not intended as security.

(28)  "Regular license certificate" means the evidence of the privilege issued under this chapter to drive a motor vehicle whose privilege was obtained by providing evidence of lawful presence in the United States with one of the document requirements described in Subsection 53-3-205(8)(a)(ii)(A).

(29)  "Renewal" means to validate a license certificate so that it expires at a later date.

(30)  "Reportable violation" means an offense required to be reported to the division as determined by the division and includes those offenses against which points are assessed under Section 53-3-221.

(31) (a)  "Resident" means an individual who:

(i)  has established a domicile in this state, as defined in Section 41-1a-202, or regardless of domicile, remains in this state for an aggregate period of six months or more during any calendar year;

(ii)  engages in a trade, profession, or occupation in this state, or who accepts employment in other than seasonal work in this state, and who does not commute into the state;

(iii)  declares himself to be a resident of this state by obtaining a valid Utah driver license certificate or motor vehicle registration; or

(iv)  declares himself a resident of this state to obtain privileges not ordinarily extended to nonresidents, including going to school, or placing children in school without paying nonresident tuition or fees.

(b)  "Resident" does not include any of the following:

(i)  a member of the military, temporarily stationed in this state;

(ii)  an out-of-state student, as classified by an institution of higher education, regardless of whether the student engages in any type of employment in this state;

(iii)  a person domiciled in another state or country, who is temporarily assigned in this state, assigned by or representing an employer, religious or private organization, or a governmental entity; or

(iv)  an immediate family member who resides with or a household member of a person listed in Subsections (31)(b)(i) through (iii).

(32)  "Revocation" means the termination by action of the division of a licensee's privilege to drive a motor vehicle.

(33) (a)  "School bus" means a commercial motor vehicle used to transport pre-primary, primary, or secondary school students to and from home and school, or to and from school sponsored events.

(b)  "School bus" does not include a bus used as a common carrier as defined in Section 59-12-102.

(34)  "Suspension" means the temporary withdrawal by action of the division of a licensee's privilege to drive a motor vehicle.

(35)  "Taxicab" means any class D motor vehicle transporting any number of passengers for hire and that is subject to state or federal regulation as a taxi.



Amended by Chapter 144, 2012 General Session

