53-3-109.   Records -- Access -- Fees -- Rulemaking.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in this section, all records of the division shall
be classified and disclosed in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 2,
Government Records Access and Management Act.
(b)  The division may only disclose personal identifying information:
(i)  when the division determines it is in the interest of the public safety
to disclose the information; and
(ii)  in accordance with the federal Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994,
18 U.S.C. Chapter 123.
(c)  The division may disclose personal identifying information:
(i)  to a licensed private investigator holding a valid agency license, with a
legitimate business need;
(ii)  to an insurer, insurance support organization, or a self-insured entity,
or its agents, employees, or contractors that issues any motor vehicle
insurance under Title 31A, Chapter 22, Part 3, Motor Vehicle Insurance, for
use in connection with claims investigation activities, antifraud activities,
rating, or underwriting for any person issued a license certificate under this
chapter; or
(iii)  to a depository institution as defined in Section 7-1-103 for use in
accordance with the federal Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994, 18 U.S.C.
Chapter 123.
(2) (a)  A person who receives personal identifying information shall be
advised by the division that the person may not:
(i)  disclose the personal identifying information from that record to any
other person; or
(ii)  use the personal identifying information from that record for
advertising or solicitation purposes.
(b)  Any use of personal identifying information by an insurer or insurance
support organization, or by a self-insured entity or its agents, employees, or
contractors not authorized by Subsection (1)(c)(ii) is:
(i)  an unfair marketing practice under Section 31A-23a-402; or
(ii)  an unfair claim settlement practice under Subsection 31A-26-303(3).
(3) (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (1)(b), the division or
its designee may disclose portions of a driving record, in accordance with
this Subsection (3), to an insurer as defined under Section 31A-1-301, or a
designee of an insurer, for purposes of assessing driving risk on the
insurer's current motor vehicle insurance policyholders.
(b)  The disclosure under Subsection (3)(a) shall:
(i)  include the licensed driver's name, driver license number, date of birth,
and an indication of whether the driver has had a moving traffic violation
that is a reportable violation, as defined under Section 53-3-102 during the
previous month;
(ii)  be limited to the records of drivers who, at the time of the disclosure,
are covered under a motor vehicle insurance policy of the insurer; and
(iii)  be made under a contract with the insurer or a designee of an insurer.
(c)  The contract under Subsection (3)(b)(iii) shall specify:
(i)  the criteria for searching and compiling the driving records being
requested;
(ii)  the frequency of the disclosures;
(iii)  the format of the disclosures, which may be in bulk electronic form;
and
(iv)  a reasonable charge for the driving record disclosures under this
Subsection (3).
(4)  The division may:
(a)  collect fees in accordance with Section 53-3-105 for searching and
compiling its files or furnishing a report on the driving record of a person;
(b)  prepare under the seal of the division and deliver upon request, a
certified copy of any record of the division, and charge a fee under Section
63J-1-504 for each document authenticated; and
(c)  charge reasonable fees established in accordance with the procedures and
requirements of Section 63J-1-504 for disclosing personal identifying
information under Subsection (1)(c).
(5)  Each certified copy of a driving record furnished in accordance with this
section is admissible in any court proceeding in the same manner as the
original.
(6) (a)  A driving record furnished under this section may only report on the
driving record of a person for a period of 10 years.
(b)  Subsection (6)(a) does not apply to court or law enforcement reports and
to reports of commercial driver license violations.
(7)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the division may make rules to designate:
(a)  what information shall be included in a report on the driving record of a
person;
(b)  the form of a report or copy of the report which may include electronic
format;
(c)  the form of a certified copy, as required under Section 53-3-216, which
may include electronic format;
(d)  the form of a signature required under this chapter which may include
electronic format;
(e)  the form of written request to the division required under this chapter
which may include electronic format;
(f)  the procedures, requirements, and formats for disclosing personal
identifying information under Subsection (1)(c); and
(g)  the procedures, requirements, and formats necessary for the
implementation of Subsection (3).
