53-3-205.   Application for license or endorsement -- Fee required -- Tests
-- Expiration dates of licenses and endorsements -- Information required --
Previous licenses surrendered -- Driving record transferred from other states
-- Reinstatement -- Fee required -- License agreement.
(1)  An application for any original license, provisional license, or
endorsement shall be:
(a)  made upon a form furnished by the division; and
(b)  accompanied by a nonrefundable fee set under Section 53-3-105.
(2)  An application and fee for an original provisional class D license or an
original class D license entitle the applicant to:
(a)  not more than three attempts to pass both the knowledge and the skills
tests for a class D license within six months of the date of the application;
(b)  a learner permit if needed pending completion of the application and
testing process; and
(c)  an original class D license and license certificate after all tests are
passed.
(3)  An application and fee for a motorcycle or taxicab endorsement entitle
the applicant to:
(a)  not more than three attempts to pass both the knowledge and skills tests
within six months of the date of the application;
(b)  a motorcycle learner permit after the motorcycle knowledge test is
passed; and
(c)  a motorcycle or taxicab endorsement when all tests are passed.
(4)  An application and fees for a commercial class A, B, or C license entitle
the applicant to:
(a)  not more than two attempts to pass a knowledge test and not more than two
attempts to pass a skills test within six months of the date of the
application;
(b)  a commercial driver instruction permit if needed after the knowledge test
is passed; and
(c)  an original commercial class A, B, or C license and license certificate
when all applicable tests are passed.
(5)  An application and fee for a CDL endorsement entitle the applicant to:
(a)  not more than two attempts to pass a knowledge test and not more than two
attempts to pass a skills test within six months of the date of the
application; and
(b)  a CDL endorsement when all tests are passed.
(6)  If a CDL applicant does not pass a knowledge test, skills test, or an
endorsement test within the number of attempts provided in Subsection (4) or
(5), each test may be taken two additional times within the six months for the
fee provided in Section 53-3-105.
(7) (a)  Except as provided under Subsections (7)(f), (g), and (h), an
original license expires on the birth date of the applicant in the fifth year
following the year the license certificate was issued.
(b)  Except as provided under Subsections (7)(f), (g), (h), and (i), a renewal
or an extension to a license expires on the birth date of the licensee in the
fifth year following the expiration date of the license certificate renewed or
extended.
(c)  Except as provided under Subsections (7)(f), (g), and (i), a duplicate
license expires on the same date as the last license certificate issued.
(d)  An endorsement to a license expires on the same date as the license
certificate regardless of the date the endorsement was granted.
(e)  A regular license certificate and any endorsement to the regular license
certificate held by a person ordered to active duty and stationed outside Utah
in any of the armed forces of the United States, which expires during the time
period the person is stationed outside of the state, is valid until 90 days
after the person has been discharged or has left the service, unless:
(i)  the license is suspended, disqualified, denied, or has been cancelled or
revoked by the division; or
(ii)  the licensee updates the information or photograph on the license
certificate.
(f)  A limited-term license certificate or a renewal to a limited-term license
certificate expires:
(i)  on the expiration date of the period of time of the individual's
authorized stay in the United States or on the date provided under this
Subsection (7), whichever is sooner; or
(ii)  on the birth date of the applicant in the first year following the year
that the limited-term license certificate was issued if there is no definite
end to the individual's period of authorized stay.
(g)  A driving privilege card issued or renewed under Section 53-3-207 expires
on the birth date of the applicant in the first year following the year that
the driving privilege card was issued or renewed.
(h)  An original license or a renewal to an original license expires on the
birth date of the applicant in the first year following the year that the
license was issued if the applicant is required to register as a sex offender
under Section 77-27-21.5.
(8) (a)  In addition to the information required by Title 63G, Chapter 4,
Administrative Procedures Act, for requests for agency action, each applicant
shall:
(i)  provide the applicant's:
(A)  full legal name;
(B)  birth date;
(C)  gender;
(D) (I)  documentary evidence of the applicant's valid Social Security number;
(II)  written proof that the applicant is ineligible to receive a Social
Security number;
(III)  temporary identification number (ITIN) issued by the Internal Revenue
Service for a person who:
(Aa)  does not qualify for a Social Security number; and
(Bb)  is applying for a driving privilege card; or
(IV)  other documentary evidence approved by the division; and
(E)  Utah residence address as documented by a form or forms acceptable under
rules made by the division under Section 53-3-104, unless the application is
for a temporary CDL issued under Subsection 53-3-407(2)(b);
(ii)  provide evidence of the applicant's lawful presence in the United States
by providing documentary evidence:
(A)  that a person is:
(I)  a United States citizen;
(II)  a national; or
(III)  a legal permanent resident alien; or
(B)  of the applicant's:
(I)  unexpired immigrant or nonimmigrant visa status for admission into the
United States;
(II)  pending or approved application for asylum in the United States;
(III)  admission into the United States as a refugee;
(IV)  pending or approved application for temporary protected status in the
United States;
(V)  approved deferred action status; or
(VI)  pending application for adjustment of status to legal permanent resident
or conditional resident;
(iii)  provide a description of the applicant;
(iv)  state whether the applicant has previously been licensed to drive a
motor vehicle and, if so, when and by what state or country;
(v)  state whether the applicant has ever had any license suspended,
cancelled, revoked, disqualified, or denied in the last 10 years, or whether
the applicant has ever had any license application refused, and if so, the
date of and reason for the suspension, cancellation, revocation,
disqualification, denial, or refusal;
(vi)  state whether the applicant intends to make an anatomical gift under
Title 26, Chapter 28, Revised Uniform Anatomical Gift Act, in compliance with
Subsection (15);
(vii)  state whether the applicant is required to register as a sex offender
under Section 77-27-21.5;
(viii)  state whether the applicant is a military veteran and does or does not
authorize sharing the information with the state Department of Veterans'
Affairs;
(ix)  provide all other information the division requires; and
(x)  sign the application which signature may include an electronic signature
as defined in Section 46-4-102.
(b)  Each applicant shall have a Utah residence address, unless the
application is for a temporary CDL issued under Subsection 53-3-407(2)(b).
(c)  Each applicant shall provide evidence of lawful presence in the United
States in accordance with Subsection (8)(a)(ii), unless the application is for
a driving privilege card.
(d)  The division shall maintain on its computerized records an applicant's:
(i) (A)  Social Security number;
(B)  temporary identification number (ITIN); or
(C)  other number assigned by the division if Subsection (8)(a)(i)(D)(IV)
applies; and
(ii)  indication whether the applicant is required to register as a sex
offender under Section 77-27-21.5.
(9)  The division shall require proof of every applicant's name, birthdate,
and birthplace by at least one of the following means:
(a)  current license certificate;
(b)  birth certificate;
(c)  Selective Service registration; or
(d)  other proof, including church records, family Bible notations, school
records, or other evidence considered acceptable by the division.
(10) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (10)(b), when an applicant receives
a license in another class, all previous license certificates shall be
surrendered and canceled.
(b)  A disqualified commercial license may not be canceled unless it expires
before the new license certificate is issued.
(11) (a)  When an application is received from a person previously licensed in
another state to drive a motor vehicle, the division shall request a copy of
the driver's record from the other state.
(b)  When received, the driver's record becomes part of the driver's record in
this state with the same effect as though entered originally on the driver's
record in this state.
(12)  An application for reinstatement of a license after the suspension,
cancellation, disqualification, denial, or revocation of a previous license
shall be accompanied by the additional fee or fees specified in Section
53-3-105.
(13)  A person who has an appointment with the division for testing and fails
to keep the appointment or to cancel at least 48 hours in advance of the
appointment shall pay the fee under Section 53-3-105.
(14)  A person who applies for an original license or renewal of a license
agrees that the person's license is subject to any suspension or revocation
authorized under this title or Title 41, Motor Vehicles.
(15) (a)  The indication of intent under Subsection (8)(a)(vi) shall be
authenticated by the licensee in accordance with division rule.
(b) (i)  Notwithstanding Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and
Management Act, the division may, upon request, release to an organ
procurement organization, as defined in Section 26-28-102, the names and
addresses of all persons who under Subsection (8)(a)(vi) indicate that they
intend to make an anatomical gift.
(ii)  An organ procurement organization may use released information only to:
(A)  obtain additional information for an anatomical gift registry; and
(B)  inform licensees of anatomical gift options, procedures, and benefits.
(16)  Notwithstanding Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and
Management Act, the division may release to the Department of Veterans'
Affairs the names and addresses of all persons who indicate their status as a
veteran under Subsection (8)(a)(viii).
(17)  The division and its employees are not liable, as a result of false or
inaccurate information provided under Subsection (8)(a)(vi) or(viii), for
direct or indirect:
(a)  loss;
(b)  detriment; or
(c)  injury.
(18)  A person who knowingly fails to provide the information required under
Subsection (8)(a)(vii) is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.
