53-3-211.   Application of minors -- Liability of person signing application
-- Cancellation of cosigning adult's liability -- Behind-the-wheel driving
certification.
(1)  As used in this section, "minor" means any person younger than 18 years
of age who is not married or has not been emancipated by adjudication.
(2) (a)  The application of a minor for a learner permit or provisional
license shall be signed by the parent or guardian of the applicant.
(b)  If the minor applicant does not have a parent or guardian or is in the
legal custody of the Division of Child and Family Services, then a parent or
responsible adult who is willing to assume the obligation imposed under this
chapter may sign the application.
(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (4), the liability of a minor for
civil compensatory damages caused when operating a motor vehicle upon a
highway is imputed to the person who has signed the application of the minor
under Subsection (2).
(b)  The person who has signed the application under Subsection (2) is jointly
and severally liable with the minor as provided in Subsections (3)(a) and (c).
(c)  The liability imposed under Subsections (3)(a) and (b) is limited to the
policy minimum limits established in Section 31A-22-304.
(d)  The liability provisions in this Subsection (3) are in addition to the
liability provisions in Section 53-3-212.
(4) (a)  If owner's or operator's security covering the minor's operation of
the motor vehicle is in effect in amounts as required under Section
31A-22-304, the person who signed the minor's application under Subsection (2)
is not subject to the liability imposed under Subsection (3).
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirement under Subsection (3), if a foster parent
signs an application under Subsection (2) for a minor who is in the legal
custody of the Division of Child and Family Services and who resides with the
foster parent, the foster parent's liability may not exceed the greater of:
(i)  minimum liability insurance policy limits established under Section
31A-22-304; or
(ii)  the policy limits of the foster parent's liability insurance policy
issued in accordance with Section 31A-22-302 that were in effect at the time
damages were caused by the minor's operation of a motor vehicle.
(5) (a)  A person who has signed the application of a minor under Subsection
(2) may file with the division a verified written request that the permit or
license of the minor be canceled.
(b)  The division shall then cancel the permit or license of the minor, and
the person who signed the application of the minor under Subsection (2) is
relieved from the liability imposed under Subsection (3) or the minor
operating a motor vehicle subsequent to the cancellation.
(6) (a)  The division upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of the death of
the person who signed the application of a minor under Subsection (2) shall
cancel the permit or license and may not issue a new permit or license until a
new application, signed and verified, is made under this chapter.
(b)  This Subsection (6) does not apply to an application of a person who is
no longer a minor.
(7) (a)  In addition to the liability assumed under this section, the person
who signs the application of a minor for a provisional license must certify
that the minor applicant, under the authority of a permit issued under this
chapter, has completed at least 40 hours of driving a motor vehicle, of which
at least ten hours shall be during night hours after sunset.
(b)  The hours of driving a motor vehicle required under Subsection (7)(a) may
include:
(i)  hours completed in a driver education course as required under Subsection
53-3-505.5(1); and
(ii)  up to five hours completed by driving simulation practice on a fully
interactive driving simulation device at the substitution rate provided under
Subsection 53-3-505.5(2)(b).
