53-3-214.   Renewal -- Fees required -- Extension without examination.

(1) (a)  The holder of a valid license may renew the holder's license and any endorsement to the license by applying:

(i)  at any time within six months before the license expires; or

(ii)  more than six months prior to the expiration date if the applicant furnishes proof that the applicant will be absent from the state during the six-month period prior to the expiration of the license.

(b)  The application for a renewal of, extension of, or any endorsement to a license shall be accompanied by a fee under Section 53-3-105.

(2) (a)  Except as provided under Subsections (2)(b) and (3), upon application for renewal of a regular license certificate, provisional license, and any endorsement to a regular license certificate, the division shall reexamine each applicant as if for an original license and endorsement to the license, if applicable.

(b)  Except as provided under Subsection (2)(c), upon application for renewal of a limited-term license certificate, limited-term provisional license certificate, and any endorsement to a limited-term license certificate, the division shall:

(i)  reexamine each applicant as if for an original limited-term license certificate and endorsement to the limited-term license certificate, if applicable; and

(ii)  verify through valid documentary evidence that the status by which the individual originally qualified for the limited-term license certificate has been extended by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services or other authorized agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security.

(c)  The division may waive any or all portions of the test designed to demonstrate the applicant's ability to exercise ordinary and reasonable control driving a motor vehicle.

(3) (a)  Except as provided under Subsections (3)(b) and (c), the division may extend a regular license certificate, any endorsement to the regular license certificate, a provisional license, and any endorsement to a provisional license for five years without examination for licensees whose driving records for the five years immediately preceding the determination of eligibility for extension show:

(i)  no suspensions;

(ii)  no revocations;

(iii)  no conviction for reckless driving under Section 41-6a-528; and

(iv)  no more than four reportable violations in the preceding five years.

(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(g), after the expiration of a regular license certificate, a new regular license certificate and any endorsement to a regular license certificate may not be issued until the person has again passed the tests under Section 53-3-206 and paid the required fee.

(c)  After the expiration of a limited-term license certificate, a new limited-term license certificate and any endorsement to a limited-term license certificate may not be issued until the person has:

(i)  again passed the tests under Section 53-3-206 and paid the required fee; and

(ii)  presented documentary evidence that the status by which the individual originally qualified for the limited-term license certificate has been extended by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services or other authorized agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security.

(d)  A person 65 years of age or older shall take and pass the eye examination specified in Section 53-3-206.

(e)  An extension may not be granted to any person:

(i)  who is identified by the division as having a medical impairment that may represent a hazard to public safety;

(ii)  holding a CDL or limited-term CDL issued under Part 4, Uniform Commercial Driver License Act;

(iii)  who is holding a limited-term license certificate; or

(iv)  who is holding a driving privilege card issued in accordance with Section 53-3-207.

(f)  The division shall allow extensions:

(i)  by mail, electronic means, or other means as determined by the division at the appropriate extension fee rate under Section 53-3-105;

(ii)  only if the applicant qualifies under this section; and

(iii)  for only one extension.

(g)  The division may waive any or all portions of the test designed to demonstrate the applicant's ability to exercise ordinary and reasonable control driving a motor vehicle.



Amended by Chapter 335, 2012 General Session

