53-3-225.   Eligibility for new license after revocation.

(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsections (1)(b) and (c), a person whose license has been revoked under this chapter may not apply for or receive any new license until the expiration of one year from the date the former license was revoked.

(b)  A person's license may be revoked for a longer period as provided in:

(i)  Section 53-3-220, for driving a motor vehicle while the person's license is revoked, or involvement as a driver in an accident or violation of the motor vehicle laws; and

(ii)  Section 53-3-221, for failing to comply with the terms of a traffic citation.

(c) (i)  The length of the revocation required by Subsection 53-3-220(1)(a)(xi), (a)(xii), (b)(i), or (b)(ii) shall be specified in an order of the court adjudicating or convicting the person of the offense.

(ii)  If the person adjudicated of the offense is younger than 16 years of age, the license or driving privilege shall be revoked for a minimum of one year, from age 16, but not to exceed the date the person turns 21 years of age.

(iii)  If the person adjudicated or convicted of the offense is 16 years of age or older, the license or driving privilege shall be revoked for a minimum of one year, but not to exceed five years.

(d)  A revoked license may not be renewed.

(e)  Application for a new license shall be filed in accordance with Section 53-3-205.

(f)  The new license is subject to all provisions of an original license.

(g)  The division may not grant the license until an investigation of the character, driving abilities, and habits of the driver has been made to indicate whether it is safe to grant him a license.

(2)  Any resident or nonresident whose license to drive a motor vehicle in this state has been suspended or revoked under this chapter may not drive a motor vehicle in this state under a license, permit, or registration certificate issued by any other jurisdiction or other source during suspension or after revocation until a new license is obtained under this chapter.

