53-3-304.   Licensing of impaired persons -- Medical review -- Restricted license -- Procedures.

(1) (a)  If the division has reason to believe that an applicant for a license is an impaired person, the division may require one or both of the following:

(i)  a physical examination of the applicant by a health care professional and the submittal by the health care professional of a signed medical report indicating the results of the physical examination;

(ii)  a follow-up medical review of the applicant by a health care professional and completion of a medical report at intervals established by the division under standards recommended by the board.

(b)  The format of the medical report required under Subsection (1)(a) shall be devised by the division with the advice of the board and shall elicit the necessary medical information to determine whether it would be a public safety hazard to permit the applicant to drive a motor vehicle on the highways.

(2) (a)  The division may grant a restricted license to an impaired person who is otherwise qualified to obtain a license.

(b)  The license continues in effect until its expiration date so long as the licensee complies with the requirements set forth by the division.

(c)  The license renewal is subject to the conditions of this section.

(d)  Any physical, mental, or emotional impairment of the applicant that in the opinion of the division does not affect the applicant's ability to exercise reasonable and ordinary control at all times in driving a motor vehicle upon the highway, does not prevent granting a license to the applicant.

(3) (a)  If an examination is required under this section, the division is not bound by the recommendation of the examining health care professional but shall give fair consideration to the recommendation in acting upon the application.  The criterion is whether upon all the evidence it is safe to permit the applicant to drive a motor vehicle.

(b)  In deciding whether to grant or deny a license, the division may be guided by the opinion of experts in the fields of diagnosing and treating mental, physical, or emotional disabilities and may take into consideration any other factors that bear on the issue of public safety.

(4)  Information provided under this section relating to physical, mental, or emotional impairment is classified under Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act.

