53-3-412.   CDL classifications, endorsements, and restrictions.

(1)  A CDL may be granted with the following classifications, endorsements, and restrictions:

(a)  Classifications:

(i)  Class A: any combination of vehicles with a GVWR of 26,001 pounds or more, if the GVWR of the one or more vehicles being towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;

(ii)  Class B: any single motor vehicle with a GVWR of 26,001 pounds or more, including that motor vehicle when towing a vehicle with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less; and

(iii)  Class C: any single motor vehicle with a GVWR of less than 26,001 pounds or that motor vehicle when towing a vehicle with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less when the vehicle is designed:

(A)  to carry 16 or more passengers, including the driver;

(B)  as a school bus, and weighing less than 26,001 pounds GVWR; or

(C)  to transport hazardous materials that requires the vehicle to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F.

(b)  Endorsements:

(i)  "H" authorizes the driver to drive a commercial motor vehicle transporting hazardous materials as defined in 42 C.F.R. Sec. 383.5.

(ii)  "N" authorizes the driver to drive a tank vehicle.

(iii)  "P" authorizes the driver to drive a motor vehicle designed to carry 16 or more passengers including the driver.

(iv)  "S" authorizes the driver to transport preprimary, primary, or secondary school students from home to school, school to home, or to and from school-sponsored events.

(v)  "T" authorizes the driver to drive a commercial motor vehicle with a double or triple trailer.

(vi)  "X" authorizes the driver to drive a tank vehicle and transport hazardous materials.

(c)  Restrictions:

(i)  "E" restricts the driver from driving a commercial motor vehicle with a manual transmission.

(ii)  "K" restricts the driver to driving intrastate only any commercial motor vehicle as defined by 49 C.F.R. Parts 383 and 390.

(iii)  "L" restricts the driver to driving a commercial motor vehicle not equipped with air brakes.

(iv)  "J" provides for other CDL restrictions.

(v)  "M" restricts a driver from transporting passengers using a class A bus.

(vi)  "N" restricts a driver from transporting passengers using a class A or class B bus.

(vii)  "O" restricts a driver from driving a commercial motor vehicle equipped with a tractor trailer.

(viii) (A)  "V" indicates that the driver has been issued a variance by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration in reference to the driver's medical certification status.

(B)  A driver with a "V" restriction shall have the letter outlining the specifications for the variance in the driver's possession along with the driver's commercial driver license when operating a commercial motor vehicle.

(ix)  "Z" restricts a driver from driving a commercial motor vehicle with non-fully equipped air brakes.

(2)  A commercial driver instruction permit may be granted with the following classifications, endorsements, and restrictions:

(a)  Classifications:

(i)  Class A: any combination of vehicles with a GVWR of 26,001 pounds or more, if the GVWR of the one or more vehicles being towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;

(ii)  Class B: any single motor vehicle with a GVWR of 26,001 pounds or more, including that motor vehicle when towing a vehicle with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less; and

(iii)  Class C: any single motor vehicle with a GVWR of less than 26,001 pounds or that motor vehicle when towing a vehicle with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less when the vehicle is designed:

(A)  to carry 16 or more passengers, including the driver;

(B)  as a school bus, and weighing less than 26,001 pounds GVWR; or

(C)  to transport hazardous material that requires the vehicle to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F.

(b)  Endorsements:

(i)  "N" authorizes the driver to drive a tank vehicle.  An "N" endorsement may only be issued with an "X" restriction.

(ii)  "P" authorizes the driver to drive a motor vehicle designed to carry 16 or more passengers including the driver.  A "P" endorsement may only be issued with a "P" restriction.

(iii)  "S" authorizes the driver to transport preprimary, primary, or secondary school students from home to school, school to home, or to and from school-sponsored events.  An "S" endorsement may only be issued with a "P" restriction.

(c)  Restrictions:

(i)  "K" restricts the driver to driving intrastate only any commercial motor vehicle as defined by 49 C.F.R. Parts 383 and 390.

(ii)  "L" restricts the driver to driving a commercial motor vehicle not equipped with air brakes.

(iii)  "M" restricts a driver from transporting passengers using a class A bus.

(iv)  "N" restricts a driver from transporting passengers using a class A or class B bus.

(v)  "P" restricts a driver from having one or more passengers in the vehicle while driving a commercial motor vehicle bus unless the passenger is:

(A)  a federal or state auditor or inspector;

(B)  a test examiner;

(C)  another trainee; or

(D)  the CDL holder accompanying the CDIP holder as required in 49 C.F.R. Sec. 383.25.

(vi) (A)  "V" indicates that the driver has been issued a variance by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration in reference to the driver's medical certification status.

(B)  A driver with a "V" restriction shall have the letter outlining the specifications for the variance in the driver's possession along with the driver's commercial driver license when operating a commercial motor vehicle.

(vii)  "X" restricts a driver from having cargo in a commercial motor vehicle tank vehicle.



Amended by Chapter 411, 2013 General Session

