53-3-413.   Issuance of CDL by division -- Driving record -- Expiration date -- Renewal -- Hazardous materials provision.

(1)  Before the division may grant a CDL, the division shall obtain the driving record information regarding the applicant through the CDLIS, the NDR, and from each state where the applicant has been licensed.

(2)  The division shall notify the CDLIS and provide all information required to ensure identification of the CDL holder within 10 days after:

(a)  issuing a CDL following application for an original, renewal, transfer, or upgrade of the CDL; or

(b)  any change is made to the identifying information of a CDL holder.

(3) (a)  The expiration date for a CDL is the birth date of the holder in the fifth year following the year of issuance of the CDL.

(b)  A limited-term CDL expires on:

(i)  the expiration date of the period of time of the individual's authorized stay in the United States or on the date provided in Subsection (3)(a), whichever is sooner; or

(ii)  on the birth date of the applicant in the first year following the year that the limited-term CDL was issued if there is no definite end to the individual's period of authorized stay.

(c)  A CDL held by a person ordered to active duty and stationed outside Utah in any of the armed forces of the United States, which expires during the time period the person is stationed outside of the state, is valid until 90 days after the person has been discharged or has left the service, unless:

(i)  the license is suspended, disqualified, denied, or has been cancelled or revoked by the division; or

(ii)  the licensee updates the information or photograph on the license certificate.

(4) (a)  The applicant for a renewal of a CDL shall complete the application form required by Section 53-3-410 and provide updated information and required certification.

(b)  In addition to the requirements under Subsection (4)(a), the applicant for a renewal of a limited-term CDL shall present documentary evidence that the status by which the individual originally qualified for the limited-term CDL has been extended by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services or other authorized agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security.

(5)  The division shall distinguish a limited-term CDL by clearly indicating on the document:

(a)  that it is temporary; and

(b)  its expiration date.

(6) (a)  The division may not issue a hazardous materials endorsement on a CDL unless the applicant meets the security threat assessment standards of the federal Transportation Security Administration.

(b)  The division shall revoke the hazardous materials endorsement on a CDL upon receiving notice from the federal Transportation Security Administration that the person holding a hazardous materials endorsement does not meet Transportation Security Administration security threat assessment standards.

(c)  To obtain an original hazardous materials endorsement or retain a hazardous materials endorsement upon CDL renewal or transfer, the applicant must take and pass the knowledge test for hazardous materials endorsement in addition to any other testing required by the division.

(7)  Unless otherwise provided, the provisions, requirements, classes, endorsements, fees, restrictions, and sanctions under this code apply to a limited-term CDL in the same way as a CDL issued under this chapter.

