53-3-705.   Procedures for issuing traffic citation.
The following is the procedure of the issuing jurisdiction:
(1)  When issuing a citation for a traffic violation, a peace officer shall
issue the citation to a motorist who possesses a driver license issued by a
party jurisdiction and shall not, subject to the exceptions noted in
Subsection (2), require the motorist to post collateral to secure appearance
if the officer receives the motorist's personal recognizance that he or she
will comply with the terms of the citation.
(2)  Personal recognizance is acceptable only if not prohibited by law. If
mandatory appearance is required, it must take place immediately following
issuance of the citation.
(3) (a)  Upon failure of a motorist to comply with the terms of a traffic
citation, the appropriate official shall report the failure to comply to the
licensing authority of the jurisdiction in which the traffic citation was
issued.
(b)  The report shall be made in accordance with procedures specified by the
issuing jurisdiction and shall contain information as specified in the compact
manual as minimum requirements for effective processing by the home
jurisdiction.
(4)  Upon receipt of the report, the licensing authority of the issuing
jurisdiction shall transmit to the licensing authority in the home
jurisdiction of the motorist the information in a form and content contained
in the compact manual.
(5)  The licensing authority of the issuing jurisdiction may not suspend the
privilege of a motorist for whom a report has been transmitted.
(6)  The licensing authority of the issuing jurisdiction may not transmit a
report on any violation if the date of transmission is more than six months
after the date on which the traffic citation was issued.
(7)  The licensing authority of the issuing jurisdiction shall not transmit a
report on any violation where the date of issuance of the citation predates
the most recent of the effective dates of entry for the two jurisdictions
affected.
