53-3-805.   Identification card -- Contents -- Specifications.

(1) (a)  The division shall issue an identification card that bears:

(i)  the distinguishing number assigned to the person by the division;

(ii)  the name, birth date, and Utah residence address of the person;

(iii)  a brief description of the person for the purpose of identification;

(iv)  a photograph of the person;

(v)  a photograph or other facsimile of the person's signature;

(vi)  an indication whether the person intends to make an anatomical gift under Title 26, Chapter 28, Revised Uniform Anatomical Gift Act; and

(vii)  if the person states that the person is a veteran of the United States military on the application for an identification card in accordance with Section 53-3-804 and provides verification that the person was honorably discharged from the United States military, an indication that the person is a United States military veteran for a regular identification card or a limited-term identification card issued on or after July 1, 2011.

(b)  An identification card issued by the division may not bear the person's Social Security number or place of birth.

(2) (a)  The card shall be of an impervious material, resistant to wear, damage, and alteration.

(b)  Except as provided under Section 53-3-806, the size, form, and color of the card is prescribed by the commissioner.

(3)  At the applicant's request, the card may include a statement that the applicant has a special medical problem or allergies to certain drugs, for the purpose of medical treatment.

(4) (a)  The indication of intent under Subsection 53-3-804(2)(j) shall be authenticated by the applicant in accordance with division rule.

(b) (i)  Notwithstanding Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act, the division may, upon request, release to an organ procurement organization, as defined in Section 26-28-102, the names and addresses of all persons who under Subsection 53-3-804(2)(j) indicate that they intend to make an anatomical gift.

(ii)  An organ procurement organization may use released information only to:

(A)  obtain additional information for an anatomical gift registry; and

(B)  inform applicants of anatomical gift options, procedures, and benefits.

(5)  Notwithstanding Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act, the division may release to the Department of Veterans' Affairs the names and addresses of all persons who indicate their status as a veteran under Subsection 53-3-804(2)(l).

(6)  The division and its employees are not liable, as a result of false or inaccurate information provided under Subsection 53-3-804(2)(j) or (l), for direct or indirect:

(a)  loss;

(b)  detriment; or

(c)  injury.



Amended by Chapter 152, 2011 General Session

