53-3-807.   Expiration -- Address and name change -- Extension for a person with a disability.

(1) (a)  An identification card issued on or after July 1, 2006, expires on the birth date of the applicant in the fifth year following the issuance of the identification card.

(b)  A limited-term identification card expires on:

(i)  the expiration date of the period of time of the individual's authorized stay in the United States or on the birth date of the applicant in the fifth year following the issuance of the limited-term identification card, whichever is sooner; or

(ii)  on the date of issuance in the first year following the year that the limited-term identification card was issued if there is no definite end to the individual's period of authorized stay.

(2)  If a person has applied for and received an identification card and subsequently moves from the address shown on the application or on the card, the person shall within 10 days notify the division in a manner specified by the division of the person's new address.

(3)  If a person has applied for and received an identification card and subsequently changes the person's name under Title 42, Chapter 1, Change of Name, the person:

(a)  shall surrender the card to the division; and

(b)  may apply for a new card in the person's new name by:

(i)  furnishing proper documentation to the division as provided in Section 53-3-804; and

(ii)  paying the fee required under Section 53-3-105.

(4) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(c), if a person has applied for and received an identification card and is currently required to register as a sex offender in accordance with Title 77, Chapter 41, Sex and Kidnap Offender Registry:

(i)  the person's identification card expires annually on the next birth date of the cardholder, on and after July 1, 2006;

(ii)  the person shall surrender the person's identification card to the division on or before the cardholder's next birth date beginning on July 1, 2006; and

(iii)  the person may apply for an identification card with an expiration date identified in Subsection (8) by:

(A)  furnishing proper documentation to the division as provided in Section 53-3-804; and

(B)  paying the fee for an identification card required under Section 53-3-105.

(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(c), if a person has applied for and received an identification card and is subsequently convicted of any offense listed in Subsection 77-41-102(16), the person shall surrender the card to the division on the person's next birth date following the conviction and may apply for a new card with an expiration date identified in Subsection (8) by:

(i)  furnishing proper documentation to the division as provided in Section 53-3-804; and

(ii)  paying the fee required under Section 53-3-105.

(c)  A person who is unable to comply with the provisions of Subsection (4)(a) or (4)(b) because the person is in the custody of the Department of Corrections or Division of Juvenile Justice Services, confined in a correctional facility not operated by or under contract with the Department of Corrections, or committed to a state mental facility, shall comply with the provisions of Subsection (4)(a) or (b) within 10 days of being released from confinement.

(5)  A person older than 21 years of age with a disability, as defined under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Pub. L. 101-336, may extend the expiration date on an identification card for five years if the person with a disability or an agent of the person with a disability:

(a)  requests that the division send the application form to obtain the extension or requests an application form in person at the division's offices;

(b)  completes the application;

(c)  certifies that the extension is for a person 21 years of age or older with a disability; and

(d)  returns the application to the division together with the identification card fee required under Section 53-3-105.

(6) (a) (i)  An identification card may only be extended once, except as prohibited under Subsection (6)(b).

(ii)  After an extension an application for an identification card must be applied for in person at the division's offices.

(b)  An identification card issued to a person required to register as a sex offender in accordance with Title 77, Chapter 41, Sex and Kidnap Offender Registry, may not be extended.

(7)  An identification card issued prior to July 1, 2006 to a person 65 years of age or older expires on December 1, 2017.

(8)  Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, an identification card expires on the birth date of the applicant in the first year following the year that the identification card was issued if the applicant is required to register as a sex offender in accordance with Title 77, Chapter 41, Sex and Kidnap Offender Registry.

(9)  A person who knowingly fails to surrender an identification card under Subsection (4) is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.

