53-3-903.   Motorcycle Rider Education Program.
(1) (a)  The division shall develop standards for and administer the
Motorcycle Rider Education Program.
(b)  The division shall make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to implement this chapter.
(2)  The program shall include:
(a)  a novice rider training course;
(b)  a rider training course for experienced riders; and
(c)  an instructor training course.
(3)  The division may expand the program to include:
(a)  enhancing public awareness of motorcycle riders;
(b)  increasing the awareness of motorcycle riders of the effects of alcohol
and drugs;
(c)  motorcycle rider skills improvement;
(d)  program and other motorcycle safety promotion; and
(e)  improvement of motorcycle licensing efforts.
(4) (a)  Subject to the restriction in Subsection (4)(b), rider training
courses shall be open to all residents of the state who:
(i)  are at least 15 years 6 months of age; and
(ii)  either hold a valid learner permit or driver license for any
classification or are eligible for a motorcycle learner permit.
(b)  A person who has been issued a learner permit may enroll in and complete
a rider training course if the course is conducted on a closed course that:
(i)  is not conducted on a public highway;
(ii)  is approved by the division; and
(iii)  meets or exceeds established national standards for motorcycle rider
training courses prescribed by the Motorcycle Safety Foundation.
(c)  An adequate number of novice rider training courses shall be provided to
meet the reasonably anticipated needs of all persons in the state who are
eligible and who desire to participate in the program.
(d)  Program delivery may be phased in over a reasonable period of time.
(5) (a)  The division may enter into contracts with either public or private
institutions to provide a rider training course approved by the division.
(b)  The institution shall issue certificates of completion in the manner and
form prescribed by the director to persons who satisfactorily complete the
requirements of the course.
(c)  An institution conducting a rider training course may charge a reasonable
tuition fee to cover the cost of offering the course.
(d) (i)  The division may use program funds to defray its own expenses in
administering the program.
(ii)  The division may reimburse entities that offer approved courses for
actual expenses incurred in offering the courses, up to a limit established by
the division based upon available program funds.
(iii)  Any reimbursement paid to an entity must be entirely reflected by the
entity in reduced course enrollment fees for students.
(6) (a)  Standards for the motorcycle rider training courses, including
standards for course curriculum, materials, and student evaluation, and
standards for the training and approval of instructors shall meet or exceed
established national standards for motorcycle rider training courses
prescribed by the Motorcycle Safety Foundation.
(b)  Motorcycle rider training courses shall be taught only by instructors
approved under Section 53-3-904.
(c)  Motorcycle rider training courses for novices shall include at least
eight hours of practice riding.
(7)  The commissioner shall appoint a full-time program coordinator to oversee
and direct the program.
