55-12-102.   Article 2 -- Definitions.
As used in this compact, unless the context clearly requires a different
construction:
(1)  "By-laws" means those by-laws established by the Interstate Commission
for its governance, or for directing or controlling its actions or conduct.
(2)  "Compact Administrator" means the individual in each compacting state
appointed pursuant to the terms of this compact, responsible for the
administration and management of the state's supervision and transfer of
juveniles subject to the terms of this compact, the rules adopted by the
Interstate Commission, and policies adopted by the State Council under this
compact.
(3)  "Compacting State" means any state which has enacted the enabling
legislation for this compact.
(4)  "Commissioner" means the voting representative of each compacting state
appointed pursuant to Section 55-12-103.
(5)  "Court" means any court having jurisdiction over delinquent, neglected,
or dependent children.
(6)  "Deputy Compact Administrator" means the individual, if any, in each
compacting state appointed to act on behalf of a Compact Administrator
pursuant to the terms of this compact responsible for the administration and
management of the state's supervision and transfer of juveniles subject to the
terms of this compact, the rules adopted by the Interstate Commission, and
policies adopted by the State Council under this compact.
(7)  "Interstate Commission" or "commission" means the Interstate Commission
for Juveniles created by Section 55-12-103.
(8)  "Juvenile" means any person defined as a juvenile in any member state or
by the rules of the Interstate Commission, including:
(a)  "accused delinquent" meaning a person charged with an offense that, if
committed by an adult, would be a criminal offense;
(b)  "accused status offender" meaning a person charged with an offense that
would not be a criminal offense if committed by an adult;
(c)  "adjudicated delinquent" meaning a person found to have committed an
offense that, if committed by an adult, would be a criminal offense;
(d)  "adjudicated status offender" meaning a person found to have committed an
offense that would not be a criminal offense if committed by an adult; and
(e)  "nonoffender" meaning a person in need of supervision who has not been
accused or adjudicated a status offender or delinquent.
(9)  "Noncompacting state" means any state which has not enacted the enabling
legislation for this compact.
(10)  "Probation or Parole" means any kind of supervision or conditional
release of juveniles authorized under the laws of the compacting states.
(11)  "Rule" means a written statement by the Interstate Commission
promulgated pursuant to Section 55-12-106 that is of general applicability,
implements, interprets, or prescribes a policy or provision of the compact, or
an organizational, procedural, or practice requirement of the Commission, and
has the force and effect of statutory law in a compacting state, and includes
the amendment, repeal, or suspension of an existing rule.
(12)  "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American
Samoa, and the Northern Marianas Islands.
