55-12-103.   Article 3 -- Interstate Commission for Juveniles.
(1)  The compacting states hereby create the "Interstate Commission for
Juveniles."
(2)  The commission shall be a body corporate and joint agency of the
compacting states.
(3)  The commission shall have all the responsibilities, powers, and duties
set forth herein, and such additional powers as may be conferred upon it by
subsequent action of the respective legislatures of the compacting states in
accordance with the terms of this compact.
(4)  The commission shall consist of commissioners appointed by the
appropriate appointing authority in each state pursuant to the rules and
requirements of each compacting state and in consultation with the State
Council for Interstate Juvenile Supervision created hereunder.
(5)  The commissioner shall be the compact administrator, deputy compact
administrator, or designee from that state who shall serve on the commission
in such capacity under or pursuant to the applicable law of the compacting
state.
(6)  In addition to the commissioners who are the voting representatives of
each state, the commission shall include individuals who are not
commissioners, but who are members of interested organizations.
Noncommissioner members shall include a member of the national organizations
of governors, legislators, state chief justices, attorneys general, Interstate
Compact for Adult Offender Supervision, Interstate Compact for the Placement
of Children, juvenile justice and juvenile corrections officials, and crime
victims.
(7)  All noncommissioner members of the commission shall be ex officio,
nonvoting members.  The commission may provide in its by-laws for additional
ex officio, nonvoting members, including members of other national
organizations, in numbers to be determined by the commission.
(8)  Each compacting state represented at any meeting of the commission is
entitled to one vote.  A majority of the compacting states shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business, unless a larger quorum is required by
the by-laws of the commission.
(9)  The commission shall meet at least once each calendar year.  The
chairperson may call additional meetings and, upon the request of a simple
majority of the compacting states, shall call additional meetings.  Public
notice shall be given of all meetings and meetings shall be open to the
public.
(10)  The commission shall establish an executive committee, which shall
include commission officers, members, and others as determined by the by-laws.
The executive committee shall:
(a)  have the power to act on behalf of the commission during periods when the
commission is not in session, with the exception of rulemaking or amendment to
the compact;
(b)  oversee the day-to-day activities of the administration of the compact
managed by an executive director and commission staff, which administers
enforcement and compliance with the provisions of the compact, its by-laws,
and rules; and
(c)  perform other duties as directed by the commission or set forth in the
by-laws.
(11)  Each member of the commission shall have the right and power to cast a
vote to which that compacting state is entitled and to participate in the
business and affairs of the commission.  A member shall vote in person and may
not delegate a vote to another compacting state.  However, a commissioner, in
consultation with the state council, shall appoint another authorized
representative, in the absence of the commissioner from that state, to cast a
vote on behalf of the compacting state at a specified meeting.  The by-laws
may provide for members' participation in meetings by telephone or other means
of telecommunication or electronic communication.
(12)  The commission's by-laws shall establish conditions and procedures under
which the commission shall make its information and official records available
to the public for inspection or copying.  The commission may exempt from
disclosure any information or official records to the extent they would
adversely affect personal privacy rights or proprietary interests.
(13)  Public notice shall be given of all meetings and all meetings shall be
open to the public, except as set forth in the rules or as otherwise provided
in the compact.  The commission and any of its committees may close a meeting
to the public where it determines by two-thirds vote that an open meeting
would be likely to:
(a)  relate solely to the commission's internal personnel practices and
procedures;
(b)  disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute;
(c)  disclose trade secrets or commercial or financial information which is
privileged or confidential;
(d)  involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(e)  disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would
constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(f)  disclose investigative records compiled for law enforcement purposes;
(g)  disclose information contained in or related to examination, operating,
or condition reports prepared by, or on behalf of or for the use of, the
commission with respect to a regulated person or entity for the purpose of
regulation or supervision of such person or entity;
(h)  disclose information, the premature disclosure of which would
significantly endanger the stability of a regulated person or entity; or
(i)  specifically relate to the commission's issuance of a subpoena, or its
participation in a civil action or other legal proceeding.
(14)  For every meeting closed pursuant to this provision, the commission's
legal counsel shall publicly certify that, in the legal counsel's opinion, the
meeting may be closed to the public, and shall reference each relevant
exemptive provision.  The commission shall keep minutes which shall fully and
clearly describe all matters discussed in any meeting and shall provide a full
and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including
a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any
roll call vote, reflected in the vote of each member on the question.  All
documents considered in connection with any action shall be identified in the
minutes.
(15)  The commission shall collect standardized data concerning the interstate
movement of juveniles as directed through its rules which shall specify the
data to be collected, the means of collection, and data exchange and reporting
requirements.  Methods of data collection, exchange, and reporting shall
insofar as is reasonably possible conform to up-to-date technology and
coordinate its information functions with the appropriate repository of
records.
