55-12-106.   Article 6 -- Rulemaking functions of the Interstate Commission.

(1)  The Interstate Commission shall promulgate and publish rules in order to effectively and efficiently achieve the purposes of the compact.

(2)  Rulemaking shall occur pursuant to the criteria set forth in this section and the by-laws and rules adopted pursuant thereto.  Rulemaking shall substantially conform to the principles of the "Model State Administrative Procedures Act," 1981 Act, Uniform Laws Annotated, Vol. 15, p.1 (2000), or any other administrative procedures act, as the commission considers appropriate, consistent with due process requirements under the U.S. Constitution as interpreted by the U. S. Supreme Court.  All rules and amendments shall become binding as of the date specified, as published with the final version of the rule as approved by the commission.

(3)  When promulgating a rule, the commission shall, at a minimum:

(a)  publish the proposed rule's entire text stating the reasons for that proposed rule;

(b)  allow and invite any and all persons to submit written data, facts, opinions, and arguments, which information shall be added to the record, and be made publicly available;

(c)  provide an opportunity for an informal hearing if petitioned by ten or more persons; and

(d)  promulgate a final rule and its effective date, if appropriate, based on input from state or local officials, or interested parties.

(4)  Not later than 60 days after a rule is promulgated, the commission shall allow any interested person to file a petition in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia or in the Federal District Court where the commission's principal office is located for judicial review of the rule.  If the court finds that the commission's action is not supported by substantial evidence in the rulemaking record, the court shall hold the rule unlawful and set it aside.  For purposes of this Subsection (4), evidence is substantial if it would be considered substantial evidence under the Model State Administrative Procedures Act.

(5)  If a majority of the legislatures of the compacting states reject a rule, those states may, by enactment of a statute or resolution in the same manner used to adopt the compact, state that the rule shall have no further force and effect in any compacting state.

(6)  The existing rules governing the operation of the Interstate Compact on Juveniles superceded by this act shall be null and void 12 months after the first meeting of the Interstate Commission created in this chapter.

(7)  Upon determination by the Interstate Commission that a state of emergency exists, it may promulgate an emergency rule which shall become effective immediately upon adoption, provided that the usual rulemaking procedures shall be retroactively applied to the rule as soon as reasonably possible, but no later than 90 days after the effective date of the emergency rule.

