55-12-107.   Article 7 -- Oversight, enforcement, and dispute resolution by the Interstate Commission.

(1)  Section A.  Oversight

(a)  The Interstate Commission shall oversee the administration and operations of the interstate movement of juveniles subject to this compact in the compacting states and shall monitor activities being administered in noncompacting states which may significantly affect compacting states.

(b)  The courts and executive agencies in each compacting state shall enforce this compact and take all actions necessary and appropriate to effectuate the compact's purposes and intent.  The provisions of this compact and the rules promulgated hereunder shall be received by all the judges, public officers, commissions, and departments of the state government as evidence of the authorized statute and administrative rules.  All courts shall take judicial notice of the compact and the rules.  In any judicial or administrative proceeding in a compacting state pertaining to the subject matter of this compact which may affect the powers, responsibilities, or actions of the commission, it shall be entitled to receive all service of process in any proceeding, and shall have standing to intervene in the proceeding for all purposes.

(2)  Section B.  Dispute Resolution

(a)  The compacting states shall report to the Interstate Commission on all issues and activities necessary for the administration of the compact as well as issues and activities pertaining to compliance with the provisions of the compact and its by-laws and rules.

(b)  The Interstate Commission shall attempt, upon the request of a compacting state, to resolve any disputes or other issues which are subject to the compact and which may arise among compacting states and between compacting and noncompacting states.  The commission shall promulgate a rule providing for both mediation and binding dispute resolution for disputes among the compacting states.

(c)  The commission, in the reasonable exercise of its discretion, shall enforce the provisions and rules of this compact using any or all means set forth in Section 55-12-109.



Enacted by Chapter 155, 2005 General Session

