55-12-111.   Article 11 -- Withdrawal, default, termination, and judicial enforcement.

(1)  Section A.  Withdrawal

(a)  Once effective, the compact shall continue in force and remain binding upon each and every compacting state.

(b)  A compacting state may withdraw from the compact by specifically repealing the statute which enacted the compact into law.  The effective date of withdrawal is the effective date of the repeal.

(c)  The withdrawing state shall immediately notify the chairperson of the Interstate Commission in writing upon the introduction of legislation repealing the compact in the withdrawing state.  The commission shall notify the other compacting states of the withdrawing state's intent to withdraw within 60 days of its receipt thereof.

(d)  The withdrawing state is responsible for all assessments, obligations, and liabilities incurred through the effective date of withdrawal, including any obligations, the performance of which extend beyond the effective date of withdrawal.

(e)  Reinstatement following withdrawal of any compacting state shall occur upon the withdrawing state reenacting the compact or upon a later date as determined by the commission.

(2)  Section B.  Technical Assistance, Fines, Suspension, Termination, and Default

(a)  If the Interstate Commission determines that any compacting state has at any time defaulted in the performance of any of its obligations or responsibilities under this compact, or the by-laws or duly promulgated rules, the commission may impose any or all of the following penalties:

(i)  remedial training and technical assistance as directed by the commission;

(ii)  alternative dispute resolution;

(iii)  fines, fees, and costs in amounts considered to be reasonable as fixed by the commission; and

(iv)  suspension or termination of membership in the compact.

(b)  Suspension or termination of membership in the compact shall be imposed only after all other reasonable means of securing compliance under the by-laws and rules have been exhausted and the commission has determined that the offending state is in default.

(c)  Immediate notice of suspension shall be given by the commission to the governor, the chief justice, or the chief judicial officer of the state, the majority and minority leaders of the defaulting state's legislature, and the state council.

(d)  The grounds for default include, but are not limited to, failure of a compacting state to perform obligations or responsibilities imposed upon it by this compact, the by-laws, or duly promulgated rules, and any other grounds designated in commission by-laws and rules.

(i)  The commission shall immediately notify the defaulting state in writing of the penalty imposed by the commission and of the default pending a cure of the default.

(ii)  The commission shall stipulate the conditions and the time period within which the defaulting state must cure its default.

(e)  If the defaulting state fails to cure the default within the time period specified by the commission, the defaulting state shall be terminated from the compact upon an affirmative vote of a majority of the compacting states and all rights, privileges, and benefits conferred by this compact shall be terminated upon the effective date of termination.

(f)  Within 60 days of the effective date of termination of a defaulting state, the commission shall notify the governor, the chief justice or chief judicial officer, the majority and minority leaders of the defaulting state's legislature, and the state council of the termination.

(g)  The defaulting state is responsible for all assessments, obligations, and liabilities incurred through the effective date of termination including any obligations, the performance of which extends beyond the effective date of termination.

(h)  The commission may not bear any costs relating to the defaulting state unless otherwise mutually agreed upon in writing between the commission and the defaulting state.

(i)  Reinstatement following termination of any compacting state requires both a reenactment of the compact by the defaulting state and the approval of the commission pursuant to the rules.

(3)  Section C.  Judicial Enforcement

(a)  The Interstate Commission may, by majority vote of the members, initiate legal action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia or, at the discretion of the Interstate Commission, in the federal district where the Interstate Commission has its offices, to enforce compliance with the provisions of the compact, its duly promulgated rules and by-laws, against any compacting state in default.

(b)  In the event judicial enforcement is necessary, the prevailing party shall be awarded all costs of litigation, including reasonable attorneys' fees.

(4)  Section D.  Dissolution of Compact

(a)  The compact dissolves effective upon the date of the withdrawal or default of a compacting state, which reduces membership in the compact to one compacting state.

(b)  Upon the dissolution of this compact, the compact becomes null and void and shall be of no further force or effect, the business and affairs of the Interstate Commission shall be concluded, and any surplus funds shall be distributed in accordance with the by-laws.

