76-7-301.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Abortion" means the intentional termination or attempted termination of
human pregnancy after implantation of a fertilized ovum, and includes any and
all procedures undertaken to kill a live unborn child and includes all
procedures undertaken to produce a miscarriage.  "Abortion" does not include
removal of a dead unborn child.
(2)  "Medical emergency" means that condition which, on the basis of the
physician's good faith clinical judgment, so threatens the life of a pregnant
woman as to necessitate the immediate abortion of her pregnancy to avert her
death, or for which a delay will create serious risk of substantial and
irreversible impairment of major bodily function.
(3) (a)  "Partial birth abortion" means an abortion in which the person
performing the abortion:
(i)  deliberately and intentionally vaginally delivers a living fetus until,
in the case of a head first presentation, the entire fetal head is outside the
body of the mother, or, in the case of breech presentation, any part of the
fetal trunk past the navel is outside the body of the mother, for the purpose
of performing an overt act that the person knows will kill the partially
delivered living fetus; and
(ii)  performs the overt act, other than completion of delivery, that kills
the partially living fetus.
(b)  "Partial birth abortion" does not include the dilation and evacuation
procedure involving dismemberment prior to removal, the suction curettage
procedure, or the suction aspiration procedure for abortion.
(4)  "Physician" means a medical doctor licensed to practice medicine and
surgery under Title 58, Chapter 67, Utah Medical Practice Act, a physician in
the employment of the government of the United States who is similarly
qualified, or an osteopathic physician licensed to practice osteopathic
medicine under Title 58, Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act.
(5)  "Hospital" means a general hospital licensed by the Department of Health
according to Title 26, Chapter 21, Health Care Facility Licensing and
Inspection Act, and includes a clinic or other medical facility to the extent
that such clinic or other medical facility provides equipment and personnel
sufficient in quantity and quality to provide the same degree of safety to the
pregnant woman and the unborn child as would be provided for the particular
medical procedures undertaken by a general hospital licensed by the Department
of Health. It shall be the responsibility of the Department of Health to
determine if such clinic or other medical facility so qualifies and to so
certify.
