76-7-306.   Refusal to participate, admit, or treat for abortion based on religious or moral grounds -- Cause of action.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Health care facility" is as defined in Section 26-21-2.

(b)  "Health care provider" means an individual who is an employee of, has practice privileges at, or is otherwise associated with a health care facility.

(2)  A health care provider may, on religious or moral grounds, refuse to perform or participate in any way, in:

(a)  an abortion; or

(b)  a procedure that is intended to, or likely to, result in the termination of a pregnancy.

(3)  Except as otherwise required by law, a health care facility may refuse, on religious or moral grounds, to:

(a)  admit a patient for an abortion procedure or another procedure that is intended to, or likely to, result in the termination of a pregnancy; or

(b)  perform for a patient an abortion procedure or another procedure that is intended to, or likely to, result in the termination of a pregnancy.

(4)  A health care provider's refusal under Subsection (2) and a health care facility's refusal under Subsection (3) may not be the basis for civil liability or other recriminatory action.

(5)  A health care facility, employer, or other person may not take an adverse action against a health care provider for exercising the health care provider's right of refusal described in Subsection (2), or for bringing or threatening to bring an action described in Subsection (6), including:

(a)  dismissal;

(b)  demotion;

(c)  suspension;

(d)  discipline;

(e)  discrimination;

(f)  harassment;

(g)  retaliation;

(h)  adverse change in status;

(i)  termination of, adverse alteration of, or refusal to renew an association or agreement; or

(j)  refusal to provide a benefit, privilege, raise, promotion, tenure, or increased status that the health care provider would have otherwise received.

(6)  A person who is adversely impacted by conduct prohibited in Subsection (5) may bring a civil action for equitable relief, including reinstatement, and for damages.  A person who brings an action under this section must commence the action within three years after the day on which the cause of action arises.

