76-7-317.1.   Abortion Litigation Trust Account.
(1)  As used in this section, "account" means the Abortion Litigation Trust
Account created in this section.
(2)  There is created in the General Fund a restricted account known as the
Abortion Litigation Trust Account.
(3)  The Division of Finance may accept, for deposit in the account, grants,
gifts, bequests, or any money made available from any private sources for the
purpose described in Subsection (4).
(4)  Except as provided in Subsection (9), money deposited into the account on
or after May 12, 2009, shall be retained in the account for the purpose of
paying litigation and appellate expenses of the Office of the Attorney
General, including any court-ordered payment of plaintiff's attorney fees, to
defend any law passed by the Legislature on or after January 1, 2009, that:
(a)  challenges the legal concept that a woman has a constitutional right to
an abortion; or
(b)  places a restriction on the right to an abortion.
(5)  Money shall be appropriated by the Legislature from the account to the
Office of the Attorney General under Title 63J, Chapter 1, Budgetary
Procedures Act.
(6)  The account may be used only for costs, expenses, and attorney fees
connected with the defense of an abortion law described in Subsection (4).
(7)  Any funds in the account on May 11, 2009, shall be first used to offset
the monies expended by the state in connection with litigation regarding
Senate Bill 23, passed in the 1991 General Session.
(8)  Any funds described in Subsection (7) that are not needed to offset the
monies expended by the state in connection with litigation regarding Senate
Bill 23, passed in the 1991 General Session, shall be retained in the account
for the purpose described in Subsection (4).
(9) (a)  If the Legislature does not pass a law described in Subsection (4) on
or before July 1, 2014, the funds in the account shall be used by the Division
of Child and Family Services, within the Department of Human Services, for
adoption assistance.
(b)  If, on or before July 1, 2014, the Legislature passes a law described in
Subsection (4), any funds remaining in the account after the litigation and
appellate expenses to defend the law are paid shall be used by the Division of
Child and Family Services, within the Department of Human Services, for
adoption assistance.
