70A-4a-202.   Authorized and verified payment orders.
(1)  A payment order received by the receiving bank is the authorized order of
the person identified as sender if that person authorized the order or is
otherwise bound by it under the law of agency.
(2) (a)  If a bank and its customer have agreed that the authenticity of
payment orders issued to the bank in the name of the customer as sender will
be verified pursuant to a security procedure, a payment order received by the
receiving bank is effective as the order of the customer, whether or not
authorized, if:
(i)  the security procedure is a commercially reasonable method of providing
security against unauthorized payment orders; and
(ii)  the bank proves that it accepted the payment order in good faith and in
compliance with the security procedure and any written agreement or
instruction of the customer restricting acceptance of payment orders issued in
the name of the customer.
(b)  The bank is not required to follow an instruction that violates a written
agreement with the customer or notice of which is not received at a time and
in a manner affording the bank a reasonable opportunity to act on it before
the payment order is accepted.
(3)  Commercial reasonableness of a security procedure is a question of law to
be determined by considering the wishes of the customer expressed to the bank,
the circumstances of the customer known to the bank, including the size, type,
and frequency of payment orders normally issued by the customer to the bank,
alternative security procedures offered to the customer, and security
procedures in general use by customers and receiving banks similarly situated.
A security procedure is considered to be commercially reasonable if:
(a)  the security procedure was chosen by the customer after the bank offered,
and the customer refused, a security procedure that was commercially
reasonable for that customer; and
(b)  the customer expressly agreed in writing to be bound by any payment
order, whether or not authorized, issued in its name, and accepted by the bank
in compliance with the security procedure chosen by the customer.
(4)  The term "sender" in this chapter includes the customer in whose name a
payment order is issued if the order is the authorized order of the customer
under Subsection (1), or it is effective as the order of the customer under
Subsection (2).
(5)  This section applies to amendments and cancellations of payment orders to
the same extent it applies to payment orders.
(6)  Except as provided in this section and in Subsection 70A-4a-203(2),
rights and obligations arising under this section or Section 70A-4a-203 may
not be varied by agreement.
