70A-4a-207.   Misdescription of beneficiary.
(1)  Subject to Subsection (2), if, in a payment order received by the
beneficiary's bank, the name, bank account number, or other identification of
the beneficiary refers to a nonexistent or unidentifiable person or account,
no person has rights as a beneficiary of the order and acceptance of the order
cannot occur.
(2)  If a payment order received by the beneficiary's bank identifies the
beneficiary both by name and by an identifying or bank account number and the
name and number identify different persons then the following rules apply.
(3)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsection (5), the beneficiary's bank
may treat the person identified by number as the beneficiary of the order if
the bank does not know that the name and number refer to different persons, it
may rely on the number as the proper identification of the beneficiary of the
order.  The beneficiary's bank need not determine whether the name and number
refer to the same person.
(4)  If the beneficiary's bank pays the person identified by name or knows
that the name and number identify different persons, no person has rights as
beneficiary except the person paid by the beneficiary's bank if that person
was entitled to receive payment from the originator of the funds transfer.  If
no person has rights as beneficiary, acceptance of the order cannot occur.
(5)  If the conditions listed in Subsections (5)(a), (b), and (c) are present,
the rules listed in Subsections (6) and (7) apply:
(a)  a payment order described in Subsection (2) is accepted;
(b)  the originator's payment order described the beneficiary inconsistently
by name and number; and
(c)  the beneficiary's bank pays the person identified by number as permitted
by Subsection (2)(a).
(6)  If the originator is a bank, the originator is obliged to pay its order.
(7)  If the originator is not a bank and proves that the person identified by
number was not entitled to receive payment from the originator, the originator
is not obliged to pay its order unless the originator's bank proves that the
originator, before acceptance of the originator's order, had notice that
payment of a payment order issued by the originator might be made by the
beneficiary's bank on the basis of an identifying or bank account number even
if it identifies a person different from the named beneficiary.  Proof of
notice may be made by any admissible evidence.  The originator's bank
satisfies the burden of proof it if proves that the originator, before the
payment order was accepted, signed a writing stating the information to which
the notice relates.
(8)  In a case governed by Subsection (2)(a), if the beneficiary's bank
rightfully pays the person identified by number and that person was not
entitled to receive payment from the originator, the amount paid may be
recovered from that person to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake
and rescission as follows:
(a)  If the originator is obliged to pay its payment order as stated in
Subsection (5), the originator has the right to recover.
(b)  If the originator is not a bank and is not obliged to pay its payment
order, the originator's bank has the right to recover.
