70A-4a-208.   Misdescription of intermediary bank or beneficiary's bank.
(1)  This subsection applies to a payment order identifying an intermediary
bank or beneficiary's bank by an identifying number.
(a)  The receiving bank may rely on the number as the proper identification of
the intermediary or beneficiary's bank and need not determine whether the
number identifies a bank.
(b)  The sender is obliged to compensate the receiving bank for any loss and
expenses incurred by the receiving bank as a result of its reliance on the
number in executing or attempting to execute the order.
(2)  This subsection applies to a payment order identifying an intermediary
bank or beneficiary's bank both by name and an identifying number if the name
and number identify different persons.
(a)  If the sender is a bank, the receiving bank may rely on the number as the
proper identification of the intermediary or beneficiary's bank if the
receiving bank, when it executes the sender's order, does not know that the
name and number identify different persons.  The receiving bank need not
determine whether the name and number refer to the same person or whether the
number refers to a bank.  The sender is obliged to compensate the receiving
bank for any loss and expenses incurred by the receiving bank as a result of
its reliance on the number in executing or attempting to execute the order.
(b)  If the sender is not a bank and the receiving bank proves that the
sender, before the payment order was accepted, had notice that the receiving
bank might rely on the number as the proper identification of the intermediary
or beneficiary's bank even if it identifies a person different from the bank
identified by name, the rights and obligations of the sender and the receiving
bank are governed by Subsection (2)(a), as though the sender were a bank.
Proof of notice may be made by any admissible evidence.  The receiving bank
satisfies the burden of proof if it proves that the sender, before the payment
order was accepted, signed a writing stating the information to which the
notice relates.
(c)  Regardless of whether the sender is a bank, the receiving bank may rely
on the name as the proper identification of the intermediary or beneficiary's
bank if the receiving bank, at the time it executes the sender's order, does
not know that the name and number identify different persons.  The receiving
bank need not determine whether the name and number refer to the same person.
(d)  If the receiving bank knows that the name and number identify different
persons, reliance on either the name or the number in executing the sender's
payment order is a breach of the obligation stated in Subsection 70A-4a-302
(1)(a).
