70A-4a-211.   Cancellation and amendment of payment order.
(1)  A communication of the sender of a payment order canceling or amending
the order may be transmitted to the receiving bank orally, electronically, or
in writing.  If a security procedure is in effect between the sender and the
receiving bank, the communication is not effective to cancel or amend the
order unless the communication is verified pursuant to the security procedure
or the bank agrees to the cancellation or amendment.
(2)  Subject to Subsection (1), a communication by the sender canceling or
amending a payment order is effective to cancel or amend the order if notice
of the communication is received at a time and in a manner affording the
receiving bank a reasonable opportunity to act on the communication before the
bank accepts the payment order.
(3)  After a payment order has been accepted, cancellation or amendment of the
order is not effective unless the receiving bank agrees or a funds transfer
system rule allows cancellation or amendment without agreement of the bank:
(a)  With respect to a payment order accepted by a receiving bank other than
the beneficiary's bank, cancellation or amendment is not effective unless a
conforming cancellation or amendment of the payment order issued by the
receiving bank is also made.
(b)  With respect to a payment order accepted by the beneficiary's bank,
cancellation or amendment is not effective unless the order was issued in
execution of an unauthorized payment order, or because of a mistake by a
sender in the funds transfer which resulted in the issuance of a payment
order:
(i)  that is a duplicate of a payment order previously issued by the sender;
(ii)  that orders payment to a beneficiary not entitled to receive payment
from the originator; or
(iii)  that orders payment in an amount greater than the amount the
beneficiary was entitled to receive from the originator.  If the payment order
is canceled or amended, the beneficiary's bank is entitled to recover from the
beneficiary any amount paid to the beneficiary to the extent allowed by the
law governing mistake and restitution.
(4)  An unaccepted payment order is canceled by operation of law at the close
of the fifth funds transfer business day of the receiving bank after the
execution date or payment date of the order.
(5)  A canceled payment order cannot be accepted.  If an accepted payment
order is canceled, the acceptance is nullified and no person has any right or
obligation based on the acceptance.  Amendment of a payment order is deemed to
be cancellation of the original order at the time of amendment and issue of a
new payment order in the amended form at the same time.
(6)  Unless otherwise provided in an agreement of the parties or in a funds
transfer system rule, if the receiving bank, after accepting a payment order,
agrees to cancellation or amendment of the order by the sender or is bound by
a funds transfer system rule allowing cancellation or amendment without the
bank's agreement, the sender, whether or not cancellation or amendment is
effective, is liable to the bank for any loss and expenses, including
reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the bank as a result of the
cancellation or amendment or attempted cancellation or amendment.
(7)  A payment order is not revoked by death or legal incapacity of the sender
unless the receiving bank knows of the death or of an adjudication of
incapacity by a court of competent jurisdiction and has reasonable opportunity
to act before acceptance of the order.
(8)  A funds transfer system rule is not effective to the extent it conflicts
with Subsection (3)(b).
