70A-4a-302.   Obligations of receiving bank in execution of payment order.
(1)  Except as provided in Subsections (2) through  (4), if the receiving bank
accepts a payment order pursuant to Subsection 70A-4a-209(1), the bank has the
following obligations in executing the order:
(a)  The receiving bank is obliged to issue, on the execution date, a payment
order complying with the sender's order and to follow the sender's
instructions concerning any intermediary bank or funds transfer system to be
used in carrying out the funds transfer, or the means by which payment orders
are to be transmitted in the funds transfer.  If the originator's bank issues
a payment order to an intermediary bank, the originator's bank is obliged to
instruct the intermediary bank according to the instruction of the originator.
An intermediary bank in the funds transfer is similarly bound by an
instruction given to it by the sender of the payment order it accepts.
(b)  If the sender's instruction states that the funds transfer is to be
carried out telephonically or by wire transfer or otherwise indicates that the
funds transfer is to be carried out by the most expeditious means, the
receiving bank is obliged to transmit its payment order by the most
expeditious available means, and to instruct any intermediary bank
accordingly.  If a sender's instruction states a payment date, the receiving
bank is obliged to transmit its payment order at a time and by means
reasonably necessary to allow payment to the beneficiary on the payment date
or as soon thereafter as is feasible.
(2) (a)  Unless otherwise instructed, a receiving bank executing a payment
order may:
(i)  use any funds transfer system if use of that system is reasonable in the
circumstances; and
(ii)  issue a payment order to the beneficiary's bank or to an intermediary
bank through which a payment order conforming to the sender's order can
expeditiously be issued to the beneficiary's bank if the receiving bank
exercises ordinary care in the selection of the intermediary bank.
(b)  A receiving bank is not required to follow an instruction of the sender
designating a funds transfer system to be used in carrying out the funds
transfer if the receiving bank, in good faith, determines that it is not
feasible to follow the instruction or that following the instruction would
unduly delay completion of the funds transfer.
(3)  Unless Subsection (1)(b) applies or the receiving bank is otherwise
instructed, the bank may execute a payment order by transmitting its payment
order by first class mail or by any means that are reasonable in the
circumstances.  If the receiving bank is instructed to execute the sender's
order by transmitting its payment order by a particular means, the receiving
bank may issue its payment order by the means stated or by any means as
expeditious as the means stated if the means used are reasonable in the
circumstances.
(4)  Unless instructed by the sender:
(a)  the receiving bank may not obtain payment of its charges for services and
expenses in connection with the execution of the sender's order by issuing a
payment order in an amount equal to the amount of the sender's order less the
amount of the charges; and
(b)  may not instruct a subsequent receiving bank to obtain payment of its
charges in the same manner.
