70A-4a-502.   Creditor process served on receiving bank -- Setoff by
beneficiary's bank.
(1)  As used in this section, "creditor process" means levy, attachment,
garnishment, notice of lien, sequestration, or similar process issued by or on
behalf of a creditor or other claimant with respect to an account.
(2)  This subsection applies to creditor process with respect to an authorized
account of the sender of a payment order if the creditor process is served on
the receiving bank.  For the purpose of determining rights with respect to the
creditor process, if the receiving bank accepts the payment order the balance
in the authorized account is deemed to be reduced by the amount of the payment
order to the extent the bank did not otherwise receive payment of the order,
unless the creditor process is served at a time and in a manner affording the
bank a reasonable opportunity to act on it before the bank accepts the payment
order.
(3)  If a beneficiary's bank has received a payment order for payment to the
beneficiary's account in the bank the rules listed in Subsections (4) through
(6) apply.
(4)  The bank may credit the beneficiary's account and the amount credited may
be set off against an obligation owed by the beneficiary to the bank or may be
applied to satisfy creditor process served on the bank with respect to the
account.
(5)  The bank may credit the beneficiary's account and may allow withdrawal of
the amount credited unless creditor process with respect to the account is
served at a time and in a manner affording the bank a reasonable opportunity
to act to prevent withdrawal.
(6)  If creditor process with respect to the account has been served and the
bank has had a reasonable opportunity to act on it, the bank may not reject
the payment order except for a reason unrelated to the service of process.
(7)  Creditor process with respect to a payment by the originator to the
beneficiary pursuant to a funds transfer may be served only on the
beneficiary's bank with respect to the debt owed by that bank to the
beneficiary.  Any other bank served with the creditor process is not obliged
to act with respect to the process.
