70A-4a-507.   Choice of law.
(1)  The following rules apply unless the affected parties otherwise agree or
Subsection (3) applies:
(a)  The rights and obligations between the sender of a payment order and the
receiving bank are governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the
receiving bank is located.
(b)  The rights and obligations between the beneficiary's bank and the
beneficiary are governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the
beneficiary's bank is located.
(c)  The issue of when payment is made pursuant to a funds transfer by the
originator to the beneficiary is governed by the law of the jurisdiction in
which the beneficiary's bank is located.
(2)  If the parties described in Subsections (1)(a), (b), and (c) have made an
agreement selecting the law of a particular jurisdiction to govern rights and
obligations between each other, the law of that jurisdiction governs those
rights and obligations, whether or not the payment order or the funds transfer
bears a reasonable relation to that jurisdiction.
(3) (a)  A funds transfer system rule may select the law of a particular
jurisdiction to govern:
(i)  rights and obligations between participating banks with respect to
payment orders transmitted or processed through the system; or
(ii)  the rights and obligations of some or all parties to a funds transfer,
any part of which is carried out by means of the system.
(b)  A choice of law made pursuant to Subsection (3)(a)(i) is binding on
participating banks.  A choice of law made pursuant to Subsection (3)(a)(ii)
is binding on the originator, other sender, or a receiving bank having notice
that the funds transfer system might be used in the funds transfer and of the
choice of law by the system when the originator, other sender, or receiving
bank issued or accepted a payment order.  The beneficiary of a funds transfer
is bound by the choice of law if, at the time the funds transfer is initiated,
the beneficiary has notice that the funds transfer system might be used in the
funds transfer and of the choice of law by the system.  The law of a
jurisdiction selected pursuant to this Subsection (3) may govern whether or
not that law bears a reasonable relation to the matter in issue.
(4)  In the event of inconsistency between an agreement under Subsection (2)
and a choice of law rule under Subsection (3), the agreement under Subsection
(2) prevails.
(5)  If a funds transfer is made by use of more than one funds transfer system
and there is inconsistency between choice of law rules of the systems, the
matter in issue is governed by the law of the selected jurisdiction that has
the most significant relationship to the matter in issue.
