75-5a-119.   Renunciation, resignation, death, or removal of custodian --
Designation of successor custodian.
(1)  A person nominated under Section 75-5a-104 or designated under Section
75-5a-110 as custodian may decline to serve by delivering a valid disclaimer
to the person who made the nomination or to the transferor or the transferor's
legal representative.  If the event giving rise to a transfer has not occurred
and no substitute custodian able, willing, and eligible to serve was nominated
under Section 75-5a-104, the person who made the nomination may nominate a
substitute custodian under Section 75-5a-104; otherwise the transferor or the
transferor's legal representative shall designate a substitute custodian at
the time of the transfer, in either case from among the persons eligible to
serve as custodian for that kind of property under Subsection 75-5a-110(1).
The custodian designated has the rights of a successor custodian.
(2)  A custodian at any time may designate a trust company or an adult other
than a transferor under Section 75-5a-105 as successor custodian by executing
and dating an instrument of designation before a subscribing witness other
than the successor.  If the instrument of designation does not contain or is
not accompanied by the resignation of the custodian, the designation of the
successor does not take effect until the custodian resigns, dies, becomes
incapacitated, or is removed.
(3)  A custodian may resign at any time by delivering written notice to the
minor if the minor is 14 years of age or older and to the successor custodian
and by delivering the custodial property to the successor custodian.
(4) (a)  If a custodian is ineligible, dies, or becomes incapacitated without
having effectively designated a successor and the minor is 14 years of age or
older, the minor may designate as successor custodian, in the manner
prescribed in Subsection (2), an adult member of the minor's family, a
conservator of the minor, or a trust company.  If the minor is not yet 14
years of age or fails to act within 60 days after the ineligibility, death, or
incapacity, the conservator of the minor becomes successor custodian.
(b)  If the minor has no conservator or the conservator declines to act, the
transferor, the legal representative of the transferor or of the custodian, an
adult member of the minor's family, or any other interested person may
petition the court to designate a successor custodian.
(5)  A custodian who declines to serve under Subsection (1) or resigns under
Subsection (3), or the legal representative of a deceased or incapacitated
custodian shall as soon as practicable place the custodial property and
records in the possession and control of the successor custodian.  The
successor custodian by action may enforce the obligation to deliver custodial
property and records and becomes responsible for each item as received.
(6)  A transferor, the legal representative of a transferor, an adult member
of the minor's family, a guardian of the person of the minor, the conservator
of the minor, or the minor if he is 14 years of age or older, may petition the
court to remove the custodian for cause and to designate a successor custodian
other than a transferor under Section 75-5a-105 or to require the custodian to
give appropriate bond.
