32B-6-206.   Master full-service restaurant license.

(1) (a)  The commission may issue a master full-service restaurant license that authorizes a person to store, sell, offer for sale, furnish, or allow the consumption of an alcoholic product on premises at multiple locations as full-service restaurants if the person applying for the master full-service restaurant license:

(i)  owns each of the full-service restaurants;

(ii)  except for the fee requirements, establishes to the satisfaction of the commission that each location of a full-service restaurant under the master full-service restaurant license separately meets the requirements of this part; and

(iii)  the master full-service restaurant license includes at least five full-service restaurant locations.

(b)  The person seeking a master full-service restaurant license shall designate which full-service restaurant locations the person seeks to have under the master full-service restaurant license.

(c)  A full-service restaurant location under a master full-service restaurant license is considered separately licensed for purposes of this title, except as provided in this section.

(2)  A master full-service restaurant license and each location designated under Subsection (1) are considered a single full-service restaurant license for purposes of Subsection 32B-6-203(3)(a).

(3) (a)  A master full-service restaurant license expires on October 31 of each year.

(b)  To renew a person's full-service restaurant license, a person shall comply with the renewal requirements of Chapter 5, Part 2, Retail Licensing Process, by no later than September 30.

(4) (a)  The nonrefundable application fee for a master full-service restaurant license is $330.

(b)  The initial license fee for a master full-service restaurant license is $10,000 plus a separate initial license fee for each newly licensed full-service restaurant license under the master full-service restaurant license determined in accordance with Subsection 32B-6-204(3)(b).

(c)  The renewal fee for a master full-service restaurant license is $1,000 plus a separate renewal fee for each full-service license under the master full-service restaurant license determined in accordance with Subsection 32B-6-204(3)(c).

(5)  A new location may be added to a master full-service restaurant license after the master full-service restaurant license is issued if:

(a)  the master full-service restaurant licensee pays a nonrefundable application fee of $330; and

(b)  including payment of the initial license fee, the location separately meets the requirements of this part.

(6) (a)  A master full-service restaurant licensee shall notify the department of a change in the persons managing a location covered by a master full-service restaurant license:

(i)  immediately, if the management personnel is not management personnel at a location covered by the master full-service restaurant licensee at the time of the change; or

(ii)  within 30 days of the change, if the master full-service restaurant licensee is transferring management personnel from one location to another location covered by the master full-service restaurant licensee.

(b)  A location covered by a master full-service restaurant license shall keep its own records on its premises so that the department may audit the records.

(c)  A master full-service restaurant licensee may not transfer alcoholic products between different locations covered by the master full-service restaurant license.

(7) (a)  If there is a violation of this title at a location covered by a master full-service restaurant license, the violation may result in disciplinary action in accordance with Chapter 3, Disciplinary Actions and Enforcement Act, against:

(i)  the single location under a master full-service restaurant license;

(ii)  individual staff of the location under the master full-service restaurant license; or

(iii)  a combination of persons or locations described in Subsections (7)(a)(i) and (ii).

(b)  In addition to disciplinary action under Subsection (7)(a), disciplinary action in accordance with Chapter 3, Disciplinary Actions and Enforcement Act, may be taken against a master full-service restaurant licensee or individual staff of the master full-service restaurant licensee if during a period beginning on November 1 and ending October 31:

(i)  at least 25% of the locations covered by the master full-service restaurant license have been found by the commission to have committed a serious or grave violation of this title, as defined by rule made by the commission; or

(ii)  at least 50% of the locations covered by the master full-service restaurant license have been found by the commission to have violated this title.

(8)  The commission may make rules, in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to establish how a person may apply for a master full-service restaurant license under this section.



Enacted by Chapter 349, 2013 General Session

