32B-6-303.   Commission's power to issue limited-service restaurant license.

(1)  Before a person may store, sell, offer for sale, furnish, or allow the consumption of wine, heavy beer, or beer on its premises as a limited-service restaurant, the person shall first obtain a limited-service restaurant license from the commission in accordance with this part.

(2) (a)  The commission may issue a limited-service restaurant license to establish limited-service restaurant licensed premises at places and in numbers the commission considers proper for the storage, sale, offer for sale, furnishing, and consumption of wine, heavy beer, or beer on premises operated as a limited-service restaurant.

(b)  A person may not sell, offer for sale, furnish, or allow the consumption of the following on the licensed premises of a limited-service restaurant licensee:

(i)  spirituous liquor; or

(ii)  a flavored malt beverage.

(3)  Subject to Section 32B-1-201:

(a)  The commission may not issue a total number of limited-service restaurant licenses that at any time exceeds the number determined by dividing the population of the state by 7,493.

(b)  The commission may issue a seasonal limited-service restaurant license in accordance with Section 32B-5-206.

(c) (i)  If the location, design, and construction of a hotel may require more than one limited-service restaurant sales location within the hotel to serve the public convenience, the commission may authorize the sale of wine, heavy beer, and beer at as many as three limited-service restaurant locations within the hotel under one limited-service restaurant license if:

(A)  the hotel has a minimum of 150 guest rooms; and

(B)  the locations under the limited-service restaurant license are:

(I)  within the same hotel; and

(II)  on premises that are managed or operated, and owned or leased, by the limited-service restaurant licensee.

(ii)  A facility other than a hotel shall have a separate limited-service restaurant license for each limited-service restaurant where wine, heavy beer, or beer is sold, offered for sale, or furnished.

(4) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), the commission may not issue a limited-service restaurant license for premises that do not meet the proximity requirements of Section 32B-1-202.

(b)  With respect to the premises of a limited-service restaurant license issued by the commission that undergoes a change of ownership, the commission shall waive or vary the proximity requirements of Subsection 32B-1-202(2) in considering whether to issue a limited-service restaurant license to the new owner of the premises if:

(i)  when a limited-service restaurant license was issued to a previous owner, the premises met the proximity requirements of Subsection 32B-1-202(2);

(ii)  the premises has had a limited-service restaurant license at all times since the limited-service restaurant license described in Subsection (4)(b)(i) was issued without a variance; and

(iii)  the community location was located within the proximity requirements of Subsection 32B-1-202(2) after the day on which the limited-service restaurant license described in Subsection (4)(b)(i) was issued.

