32B-6-305.   Specific operational requirements for a limited-service restaurant license.

(1) (a)  In addition to complying with Chapter 5, Part 3, Retail Licensee Operational Requirements, a limited-service restaurant licensee and staff of the limited-service restaurant licensee shall comply with this section.

(b)  Failure to comply as provided in Subsection (1)(a) may result in disciplinary action in accordance with Chapter 3, Disciplinary Actions and Enforcement Act, against:

(i)  a limited-service restaurant licensee;

(ii)  individual staff of a limited-service restaurant licensee; or

(iii)  both a limited-service restaurant licensee and staff of the limited-service restaurant licensee.

(2) (a)  A limited-service restaurant licensee on the licensed premises may not sell, offer for sale, furnish, or allow consumption of:

(i)  spirituous liquor; or

(ii)  a flavored malt beverage.

(b)  A product listed in Subsection (2)(a) may not be on the premises of a limited-service restaurant licensee except for use:

(i)  as a flavoring on a dessert; and

(ii)  in the preparation of a flaming food dish, drink, or dessert.

(3)  In addition to complying with Section 32B-5-303, a limited-service restaurant licensee shall store an alcoholic product in a storage area described in Subsection (12)(a).

(4) (a)  An individual who serves an alcoholic product in a limited-service restaurant licensee's premises shall make a written beverage tab for each table or group that orders or consumes an alcoholic product on the premises.

(b)  A beverage tab required by this Subsection (4) shall list the type and amount of an alcoholic product ordered or consumed.

(5)  A person's willingness to serve an alcoholic product may not be made a condition of employment as a server with a limited-service restaurant licensee.

(6) (a)  A limited-service restaurant licensee may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish wine or heavy beer at the licensed premises on any day during the period that:

(i)  begins at midnight; and

(ii)  ends at 11:29 a.m.

(b)  A limited-service restaurant licensee may sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer during the hours specified in Part 7, On-premise Beer Retailer License, for an on-premise beer retailer, except that a limited-service restaurant licensee may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer before 11:30 a.m. on any day.

(7)  A limited-service restaurant licensee shall maintain at least 70% of its total restaurant business from the sale of food, which does not include a service charge.

(8) (a)  A limited-service restaurant licensee may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish an alcoholic product except after the limited-service restaurant licensee confirms that the patron has the intent to order food prepared, sold, and furnished at the licensed premises.

(b)  A limited-service restaurant licensee shall maintain on the licensed premises adequate culinary facilities for food preparation and dining accommodations.

(9) (a)  Subject to the other provisions of this Subsection (9), a patron may not have more than two alcoholic products of any kind at a time before the patron.

(b)  An individual portion of wine is considered to be one alcoholic product under Subsection (9)(a).

(10)  A patron may consume an alcoholic product only:

(a)  at:

(i)  the patron's table;

(ii)  a counter; or

(iii)  a seating grandfathered bar structure; and

(b)  where food is served.

(11) (a)  A limited-service restaurant licensee may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish an alcoholic product to a patron, and a patron may not consume an alcoholic product at a bar structure that is not a seating grandfathered bar structure.

(b)  At a seating grandfathered bar structure a patron who is 21 years of age or older may:

(i)  sit;

(ii)  be furnished an alcoholic product; and

(iii)  consume an alcoholic product.

(c)  Except as provided in Subsection (11)(d), at a seating grandfathered bar structure a limited-service restaurant licensee may not permit a minor to, and a minor may not:

(i)  sit; or

(ii)  consume food or beverages.

(d) (i)  A minor may be at a seating grandfathered bar structure if the minor is employed by a limited-service restaurant licensee:

(A)  as provided in Subsection 32B-5-308(2); or

(B)  to perform maintenance and cleaning services during an hour when the limited-service restaurant licensee is not open for business.

(ii)  A minor may momentarily pass by a seating grandfathered bar structure without remaining or sitting at the bar structure en route to an area of a limited-service restaurant licensee's premises in which the minor is permitted to be.

(12)  Except as provided in Subsection 32B-5-307(3), a limited-service restaurant licensee may dispense an alcoholic product only if:

(a)  the alcoholic product is dispensed from:

(i)  a grandfathered bar structure;

(ii)  an area adjacent to a grandfathered bar structure that is visible to a patron sitting at the grandfathered bar structure if that area is used to dispense an alcoholic product as of May 12, 2009; or

(iii)  an area that is:

(A)  separated from an area for the consumption of food by a patron by a solid, translucent, permanent structural barrier such that the facilities for the storage or dispensing of an alcoholic product are:

(I)  not readily visible to a patron; and

(II)  not accessible by a patron; and

(B)  apart from an area used:

(I)  for dining;

(II)  for staging; or

(III)  as a lobby or waiting area;

(b)  the limited-service restaurant licensee uses an alcoholic product that is:

(i)  stored in an area described in Subsection (12)(a); or

(ii)  in an area not described in Subsection (12)(a) on the licensed premises and:

(A)  immediately before the alcoholic product is dispensed it is in an unopened container;

(B)  the unopened container is taken to an area described in Subsection (12)(a) before it is opened; and

(C)  once opened, the container is stored in an area described in Subsection (12)(a); and

(c)  any instrument or equipment used to dispense alcoholic product is located in an area described in Subsection (12)(a).

(13)  A limited-service restaurant licensee may state in a food or alcoholic product menu a charge or fee made in connection with the sale, service, or consumption of wine or heavy beer including:

(a)  a set-up charge;

(b)  a service charge; or

(c)  a chilling fee.



Amended by Chapter 353, 2013 General Session

