32B-6-407.   Specific operational requirements for equity club license or fraternal club license.

(1)  For purposes of this section only:

(a)  "Club licensee" means an equity club licensee or fraternal club licensee.

(b)  "Club licensee" does not include a dining club licensee or social club licensee.

(2) (a)  A club licensee shall have a governing body that:

(i)  consists of three or more members of the club; and

(ii)  holds regular meetings to:

(A)  review membership applications; and

(B)  conduct other business as required by the bylaws or house rules of the club.

(b) (i)  A club licensee shall maintain a minute book that is posted currently by the club licensee.

(ii)  The minute book required by this Subsection (2) shall contain the minutes of a regular or special meeting of the governing body.

(3)  A club licensee may admit an individual as a member only on written application signed by the person, subject to:

(a)  the person paying an application fee; and

(b)  investigation, vote, and approval of a quorum of the governing body.

(4)  A club licensee shall:

(a)  record an admission of a member in the official minutes of a regular meeting of the governing body; and

(b)  whether approved or disapproved, file an application as a part of the official records of the club licensee.

(5)  The spouse of a member of a club licensee has the rights and privileges of the member:

(a)  to the extent permitted by the bylaws or house rules of the club licensee; and

(b)  except to the extent restricted by this title.

(6)  A minor child of a member of a club licensee has the rights and privileges of the member:

(a)  to the extent permitted by the bylaws or house rules of the club licensee; and

(b)  except to the extent restricted by this title.

(7)  A club licensee shall maintain:

(a)  a current and complete membership record showing:

(i)  the date of application of a proposed member;

(ii)  a member's address;

(iii)  the date the governing body approved a member's admission;

(iv)  the date initiation fees and dues are assessed and paid; and

(v)  the serial number of the membership card issued to a member;

(b)  a membership list; and

(c)  a current record indicating when a member is removed as a member or resigns.

(8) (a)  A club licensee shall have bylaws or house rules that include provisions respecting the following:

(i)  standards of eligibility for members;

(ii)  limitation of members, consistent with the nature and purpose of the club;

(iii)  the period for which dues are paid, and the date upon which the period expires;

(iv)  provisions for removing a member from the club membership for the nonpayment of dues or other cause;

(v)  provisions for guests; and

(vi)  application fees and membership dues.

(b)  A club licensee shall maintain a current copy of the club licensee's current bylaws and current house rules.

(c)  A club licensee shall maintain its bylaws or house rules, and any amendments to those records, on file with the department at all times.

(9)  A club licensee may, in its discretion, allow an individual to be admitted to or use the club licensed premises as a guest subject to the following conditions:

(a)  the individual is allowed to use the club licensee premises only to the extent permitted by the club licensee's bylaws or house rules;

(b)  the individual shall be previously authorized by a member of the club who agrees to host the individual as a guest into the club;

(c)  the individual has only those privileges derived from the individual's host for the duration of the individual's visit to the club licensee premises; and

(d)  a club licensee or staff of the club licensee may not enter into an agreement or arrangement with a club member to indiscriminately host a member of the general public into the club licensee premises as a guest.

(10)  Notwithstanding Subsection (9), an individual may be allowed as a guest in a club licensed premises without a host if:

(a) (i)  the club licensee is an equity club licensee; and

(ii)  the individual is a member of an equity club licensee that has reciprocal guest privileges with the equity club licensee for which the individual is a guest; or

(b) (i)  the club licensee is a fraternal club licensee; and

(ii)  the individual is a member of the same fraternal organization as the fraternal club licensee for which the individual is a guest.

(11)  Unless the patron is a member or guest, a club licensee may not:

(a)  sell, offer for sale, or furnish an alcoholic product to the patron; or

(b)  allow the patron to be admitted to or use the licensed premises.

(12)  A minor may not be a member, officer, director, or trustee of a club licensee.

(13)  Public advertising related to a club licensee by the following shall clearly identify a club as being "a club for members":

(a)  the club licensee;

(b)  staff of the club licensee; or

(c)  a person under a contract or agreement with the club licensee.



Amended by Chapter 297, 2011 General Session

