32B-6-505.   Specific operational requirements for an airport lounge license.

(1) (a)  In addition to complying with Chapter 5, Part 3, Retail Licensee Operational Requirements, an airport lounge licensee and staff of the airport lounge licensee shall comply with this section.

(b)  Failure to comply as provided in Subsection (1)(a) may result in disciplinary action in accordance with Chapter 3, Disciplinary Actions and Enforcement Act, against:

(i)  an airport lounge licensee;

(ii)  individual staff of an airport lounge licensee; or

(iii)  both an airport lounge licensee and staff of the airport lounge licensee.

(2)  In addition to complying with Subsection 32B-5-301(3), an airport lounge licensee shall display in a prominent place in the airport lounge:

(a)  a list of the types and brand names of liquor being furnished through airport lounge licensee's calibrated metered dispensing system; and

(b)  a sign to inform the public that alcoholic products are sold and consumed on the licensed premises.

(3)  Notwithstanding Section 32B-5-307:

(a)  An airport lounge licensee may not permit a patron to bring a bottled wine onto the premises of the retail licensee.

(b)  An airport lounge licensee may not permit a patron to remove an alcoholic product from the licensed premises.

(4) (a)  A server of an alcoholic product in an airport lounge licensee's premises shall make a written beverage tab for each table or group that orders or consumes an alcoholic product on the premises.

(b)  A beverage tab required by this Subsection (4) shall list the type and amount of an alcoholic product ordered or consumed.

(5)  An airport lounge licensee may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish an alcoholic product at an airport lounge on any day during a period that:

(a)  begins at midnight; and

(b)  ends at 7:59 a.m.

(6) (a)  Subject to the other provisions of this Subsection (6), a patron may not have more than two alcoholic products of any kind at a time before the patron.

(b)  A patron may not have two spirituous liquor drinks before the patron if one of the spirituous liquor drinks consists only of the primary spirituous liquor for the other spirituous liquor drink.

(c)  An individual portion of wine is considered to be one alcoholic product under this Subsection (6).

(7)  An airport lounge licensee may state in a food or alcoholic product menu a charge or fee made in connection with the sale, furnishing, or consumption of liquor menu including:

(a)  a set-up charge;

(b)  a service charge; or

(c)  a chilling fee.

(8)  An airport lounge liquor licensee's premises may not be leased for a private event.

