32B-6-706.   Specific operational requirements for on-premise beer retailer license.

(1) (a)  In addition to complying with Chapter 5, Part 3, Retail Licensee Operational Requirements, an on-premise beer retailer and staff of the on-premise beer retailer shall comply with this section.

(b)  Failure to comply as provided in Subsection (1)(a) may result in disciplinary action in accordance with Chapter 3, Disciplinary Actions and Enforcement Act, against:

(i)  an on-premise beer retailer;

(ii)  individual staff of an on-premise beer retailer; or

(iii)  both an on-premise beer retailer and staff of the on-premise beer retailer.

(2) (a)  An on-premise beer retailer is not subject to Section 32B-5-302, but shall make and maintain the records the department requires.

(b)  Section 32B-1-205 applies to a record required to be made or maintained in accordance with this Subsection (2).

(3)  Notwithstanding Section 32B-5-303, an on-premise beer retailer may not store or sell liquor on its licensed premises.

(4)  Beer sold in a sealed container by an on-premise beer retailer may be removed from the on-premise beer retailer premises in the sealed container.

(5) (a)  An on-premise beer retailer may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer at its licensed premises during a period that:

(i)  begins at 1 a.m.; and

(ii)  ends at 9:59 a.m.

(b) (i)  Notwithstanding Subsection (5)(a), a tavern shall remain open for one hour after the tavern ceases the sale and furnishing of beer during which time a patron of the tavern may finish consuming a single serving of beer not exceeding 26 ounces.

(ii)  A tavern is not required to remain open:

(A)  after all patrons have vacated the premises; or

(B)  during an emergency.

(6)  Notwithstanding Section 32B-5-308, a minor may not be on the premises of a tavern.

(7) (a) (i)  An on-premise beer retailer may not purchase, acquire, possess for the purpose of resale, or sell beer except beer that the on-premise beer retailer lawfully purchases from:

(A)  a beer wholesaler licensee; or

(B)  a small brewer that manufactures the beer.

(ii)  Violation of Subsection (7)(a)(i) is a class A misdemeanor.

(b) (i)  If an on-premise beer retailer purchases beer under this Subsection (7) from a beer wholesaler licensee, the on-premise beer retailer shall purchase beer only from a beer wholesaler licensee who is designated by the manufacturer to sell beer in the geographical area in which the off-premise beer retailer is located, unless an alternate wholesaler is authorized by the department to sell to the off-premise beer retailer as provided in Section 32B-13-301.

(ii)  Violation of Subsection (7)(b)(i) is a class B misdemeanor.

(8)  A tavern shall comply with Section 32B-1-407.

