32B-6-903.   Commission's power to issue beer-only restaurant license.

(1)  Before a person may store, sell, offer for sale, furnish, or allow the consumption of beer on its premises as a beer-only restaurant, the person shall first obtain a beer-only restaurant license from the commission in accordance with this part.

(2) (a)  The commission may issue a beer-only restaurant license to establish beer-only restaurant licensed premises at places and in numbers the commission considers proper for the storage, sale, offer for sale, furnishing, and consumption of beer on premises operated as a beer-only restaurant.

(b)  A person may not sell, offer for sale, furnish, or allow the consumption of liquor on the licensed premises of a beer-only restaurant licensee.

(3) (a)  Only one beer-only restaurant license is required for each building or resort facility owned or leased by the same person.

(b)  A separate license is not required for each beer-only restaurant license dispensing location in the same building or on the same resort premises owned or operated by the same person.

(4) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b) or (c), the commission may not issue a beer-only restaurant license for premises that do not meet the proximity requirements of Section 32B-1-202.

(b)  With respect to the premises of a beer-only restaurant license issued by the commission that undergoes a change of ownership, the commission shall waive or vary the proximity requirements of Subsection 32B-1-202(2) in considering whether to issue a beer-only restaurant license to the new owner of the premises if:

(i)  when a beer-only restaurant license was issued to a previous owner, the premises met the proximity requirements of Subsection 32B-1-202(2);

(ii)  the premises has had a beer-only restaurant license at all times since the beer-only restaurant license described in Subsection (4)(b)(i) was issued without a variance; and

(iii)  the community location was located within the proximity requirements of Subsection 32B-1-202(2) after the day on which the beer-only restaurant license described in Subsection (4)(b)(i) was issued.

(c)  The location of the licensed premises of an on-premise beer retailer who is licensed as of July 1, 2011, is grandfathered and not required to meet the proximity requirements of Section 32B-1-202 if the on-premise beer retailer obtains a beer-only restaurant license by not later than March 1, 2012.  A location grandfathered under this Subsection (4)(c) is considered grandfathered notwithstanding that the beer-only restaurant license undergoes a change of ownership.

