32B-6-905.   Specific operational requirements for a beer-only restaurant license.

(1) (a)  In addition to complying with Chapter 5, Part 3, Retail Licensee Operational Requirements, a beer-only restaurant licensee and staff of the beer-only restaurant licensee shall comply with this section.

(b)  Failure to comply as provided in Subsection (1)(a) may result in disciplinary action in accordance with Chapter 3, Disciplinary Actions and Enforcement Act, against:

(i)  a beer-only restaurant licensee;

(ii)  individual staff of a beer-only restaurant licensee; or

(iii)  both a beer-only restaurant licensee and staff of the beer-only restaurant licensee.

(2) (a)  A beer-only restaurant licensee on the licensed premises may not sell, offer for sale, furnish, or allow consumption of liquor.

(b)  Liquor may not be on the premises of a beer-only restaurant licensee except for use:

(i)  as a flavoring on a dessert; and

(ii)  in the preparation of a flaming food dish, drink, or dessert.

(3)  In addition to complying with Section 32B-5-303, a beer-only restaurant licensee shall store beer in a storage area described in Subsection (12)(a).

(4) (a)  An individual who serves beer in a beer-only restaurant licensee's premises shall make a written beverage tab for each table or group that orders or consumes an alcoholic product on the premises.

(b)  A beverage tab required by this Subsection (4) shall list the type and amount of beer ordered or consumed.

(5)  A person's willingness to serve beer may not be made a condition of employment as a server with a beer-only restaurant licensee.

(6)  A beer-only restaurant licensee may sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer during the hours specified in Part 7, On-premise Beer Retailer License, for an on-premise beer retailer, except that a beer-only restaurant licensee may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer before 11:30 a.m. on any day.

(7)  A beer-only restaurant licensee shall maintain at least 70% of its total restaurant business from the sale of food, which does not include a service charge.

(8) (a)  A beer-only restaurant may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer except in connection with an order for food prepared, sold, and furnished at the licensed premises.

(b)  A beer-only restaurant shall maintain on the licensed premises adequate culinary facilities for food preparation and dining accommodations.

(9)  A patron may not have more than two beers at a time before the patron.

(10)  A patron may consume a beer only:

(a)  at:

(i)  the patron's table;

(ii)  a grandfathered bar structure; or

(iii)  a counter; and

(b)  where food is served.

(11) (a)  A beer-only restaurant licensee may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish a beer to a patron, and a patron may not consume an alcoholic product at a bar structure.

(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (11)(a), at a grandfathered bar structure, a patron who is 21 years of age or older may:

(i)  sit;

(ii)  be furnished a beer; and

(iii)  consume a beer.

(c)  Except as provided in Subsection (11)(d), at a grandfathered bar structure, a beer-only restaurant licensee may not permit a minor to, and a minor may not:

(i)  sit; or

(ii)  consume food or beverages.

(d) (i)  A minor may be at a grandfathered bar structure if the minor is employed by a beer-only restaurant licensee:

(A)  as provided in Subsection 32B-5-308(2); or

(B)  to perform maintenance and cleaning services during an hour when the beer-only restaurant licensee is not open for business.

(ii)  A minor may momentarily pass by a grandfathered bar structure without remaining or sitting at the bar structure en route to an area of a beer-only restaurant licensee's premises in which the minor is permitted to be.

(12)  A beer-only restaurant licensee may dispense a beer only if:

(a)  the beer is dispensed from an area that is:

(i)  a grandfathered bar structure; or

(ii)  separated from an area for the consumption of food by a patron by a solid, translucent, permanent structural barrier such that the facilities for the storage or dispensing of an alcoholic product are not readily visible to a patron, not accessible by a patron, and apart from an area used for dining, for staging, or as a lobby or waiting area;

(b)  the beer-only restaurant licensee uses a beer that is:

(i)  stored in an area described in Subsection (12)(a); or

(ii)  in an area not described in Subsection (12)(a) on the licensed premises and:

(A)  immediately before the beer is dispensed it is in an unopened container;

(B)  the unopened container is taken to an area described in Subsection (12)(a) before it is opened; and

(C)  once opened, the container is stored in an area described in Subsection (12)(a); and

(c)  any instrument or equipment used to dispense the beer is located in an area described in Subsection (12)(a).

