53A-25b-201.   Authority of the State Board of Education -- Rulemaking -- Superintendent -- Advisory Council.

(1)  The State Board of Education is the governing board of the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind.

(2) (a)  The board shall appoint a superintendent for the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind.

(b)  The board shall make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, regarding the qualifications, terms of employment, and duties of the superintendent for the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind.

(3)  The superintendent shall:

(a)  subject to the approval of the board, appoint an associate superintendent to administer the Utah School for the Deaf based on:

(i)  demonstrated competency as an expert educator of deaf persons; and

(ii)  knowledge of school management and the instruction of deaf persons;

(b)  subject to the approval of the board, appoint an associate superintendent to administer the Utah School for the Blind based on:

(i)  demonstrated competency as an expert educator of blind persons; and

(ii)  knowledge of school management and the instruction of blind persons, including an understanding of the unique needs and education of deafblind persons.

(4) (a)  The board shall:

(i)  establish the Advisory Council for the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind and appoint no more than 11 members to the advisory council;

(ii)  make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, regarding the operation of the advisory council; and

(iii)  receive and consider the advice and recommendations of the advisory council but is not obligated to follow the recommendations of the advisory council.

(b)  The advisory council described in Subsection (4)(a) shall include at least:

(i)  two members who are blind;

(ii)  two members who are deaf; and

(iii)  two members who are deafblind or parents of a deafblind child.

(5)  The board shall approve the annual budget and expenditures of the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind.

(6) (a)  On or before the November interim meeting each year, the board shall report to the Education Interim Committee on the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind.

(b)  The report shall be presented verbally and in written form to the Education Interim Committee and shall include:

(i)  a financial report;

(ii)  a report on the activities of the superintendent and associate superintendents;

(iii)  a report on activities to involve parents and constituency and advocacy groups in the governance of the school; and

(iv)  a report on student achievement including:

(A)  student academic achievement data, including longitudinal data for both current and previous students served by the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind;

(B)  graduation rates; and

(C)  students exiting the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind and their educational placement after exiting the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind.



Amended by Chapter 291, 2012 General Session

