53A-25b-203.   Advisory Council for the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the
Blind.
(1) (a)  There is created the Advisory Council for the Utah Schools for the
Deaf and the Blind composed of at least six, but no more than 11, voting
members appointed by the board.
(b)  The advisory council shall include:
(i)  two members who are blind;
(ii)  two members who are deaf; and
(iii)  two members who are deafblind or parents of a deafblind child.
(c)  The board may appoint other advisory council members who have an interest
in and knowledge of the needs and education of students who are deaf, blind,
or deafblind.
(2)  The board may remove a council member for cause.
(3)  The board shall makes rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act, regarding the operation of the advisory
council, including rules:
(a)  specifying the term of membership for advisory council members;
(b)  establishing procedures for filling a vacancy on the advisory council;
and
(c)  establishing procedures for dismissing an advisory council member.
(4)  An advisory council member may receive per diem and expenses incurred in
the performance of the member's official duties at the rates established by
the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(5)  The advisory council shall meet at least ten times per year.
(6) (a)  The advisory council shall elect a chair and vice chair from its
membership.
(b)  The advisory council may elect other officers from its membership.
(c)  The advisory council officers shall serve one-year terms.
(7)  A majority of the advisory council constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(8)  The board shall assign a staff member from the Utah State Office of
Education and the superintendent to act as liaisons between the board and the
advisory council.
(9)  The advisory council shall:
(a)  advise and make recommendations to the board, superintendent, and
associate superintendents regarding:
(i)  staff positions;
(ii)  policy;
(iii)  budgets; and
(iv)  operations;
(b)  advise the board, superintendent, and associate superintendents as to the
needs of those who are deaf, blind, or deafblind and of appropriate programs
and services to address individual needs consistent with state and federal
laws, rules, and regulations; and
(c)  advise and make recommendations to the board regarding the continued
employment of the superintendent and associate superintendents.
(10)  The board shall receive and consider the advice and recommendations of
the advisory council but is not obligated to follow that advice or adopt the
recommendations.
