58-42a-102.   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:

(1)  "Assessment" means the use of skilled observation or evaluation by administering and interpreting standardized or nonstandardized tests and measurements to identify areas for occupational therapy services.

(2)  "Board" means the Occupational Therapy Board created in Section 58-42a-201.

(3)  "Certified occupational therapy assistant" or "COTA" means a person certified as a certified occupational therapy assistant by the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy.

(4)  "Individual treatment plan" includes:

(a)  planning and directing specific exercises and programs to improve sensory integration and motor functioning at the level of performance neurologically appropriate for the individual's stage of development;

(b)  establishing a program of instruction to teach a patient in skills, behaviors, and attitudes necessary for the patient's independent productive, emotional, and social functioning;

(c)  analyzing, selecting, and adapting functional exercises to achieve and maintain the patient's optimal functioning in daily living tasks and to prevent further disability; and

(d)  planning and directing specific programs to evaluate and enhance perceptual, motor, and cognitive skills.

(5)  "Occupational therapist" or "OT" means a person licensed in the state to practice occupational therapy.

(6)  "Occupational therapist registered" or "OTR" means a person certified as an occupational therapist registered by the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy.

(7)  "Occupational therapy" means the use of purposeful activity or occupational therapy interventions to develop or restore the highest possible level of independence of an individual who is limited by a physical injury or illness, a dysfunctional condition, a cognitive impairment, a psychosocial dysfunction, a mental illness, a developmental or learning disability, or an adverse environmental condition.

(8)  "Occupational therapy assistant" or "OTA" means a person licensed in the state to practice occupational therapy under the supervision of an occupational therapist as set forth in Section 58-42a-306.

(9)  "Occupational therapy services" include:

(a)  assessing, treating, educating, or consulting with an individual, family, or other persons;

(b)  developing, improving, or restoring an individual's daily living skills, work readiness, work performance, play skills, or leisure capacities, or enhancing an individual's educational performance skills;

(c)  developing, improving, or restoring an individual's sensory-motor, oral-motor, perceptual, or neuromuscular functioning, or the individual's range of motion;

(d)  developing, improving, or restoring the individual's emotional, motivational, cognitive, or psychosocial components of performance;

(e)  assessing the need for and recommending, developing, adapting, designing, or fabricating splints or assistive technology devices for individuals;

(f)  training individuals in the use of rehabilitative or assistive technology devices such as selected orthotic or prosthetic devices;

(g)  applying physical agent modalities as an adjunct to or in preparation for purposeful activity;

(h)  applying the use of ergonomic principles; and

(i)  adapting or modifying environments and processes to enhance or promote the functional performance, health, and wellness of individuals.

(10)  "Practice of occupational therapy" means rendering or offering to render occupational therapy services to individuals, groups, agencies, organizations, industries, or the public.

(11)  "Unprofessional conduct" is as defined in Section 58-42a-501.

