20A-7-207.   Evaluation by the lieutenant governor.
(1)  When each initiative packet is received from a county clerk, the
lieutenant governor shall check off from the record the number of each
initiative packet filed.
(2) (a)  After all of the initiative packets have been received by the
lieutenant governor and the lieutenant governor has removed the signatures as
required by Section 20A-7-206, the lieutenant governor shall:
(i)  count the number of the names certified by the county clerks that remain
on each verified signature sheet; and
(ii)  declare the petition to be sufficient or insufficient by June 1 before
the regular general election.
(b)  If the total number of names counted under Subsection (2)(a)(i) equals or
exceeds the number of names required by Section 20A-7-201, the lieutenant
governor shall mark upon the front of the petition the word "sufficient."
(c)  If the total number of names counted under Subsection (2)(a)(i) does not
equal or exceed the number of names required by Section 20A-7-201, the
lieutenant governor shall mark upon the front of the petition the word
"insufficient."
(d)  The lieutenant governor shall immediately notify any one of the sponsors
of his finding.
(3)  Once a petition is declared insufficient, the sponsors may not submit
additional signatures to qualify the petition for the pending regular general
election.
(4) (a)  If the lieutenant governor refuses to accept and file any initiative
petition that a sponsor believes is legally sufficient, any voter may, by June
15, apply to the supreme court for an extraordinary writ to compel the
lieutenant governor to do so.
(b)  The supreme court shall:
(i)  determine whether or not the initiative petition is legally sufficient;
and
(ii)  certify its findings to the lieutenant governor.
(c)  If the supreme court certifies that the initiative petition is legally
sufficient, the lieutenant governor shall file it, with a verified copy of the
judgment attached to it, as of the date on which it was originally offered for
filing in his office.
(d)  If the supreme court determines that any petition filed is not legally
sufficient, the supreme court may enjoin the lieutenant governor and all other
officers from certifying or printing the ballot title and numbers of that
measure on the official ballot for the next election.
