20A-7-307.   Evaluation by the lieutenant governor.

(1)  When each referendum packet is received from a county clerk, the lieutenant governor shall check off from the record the number of each referendum packet filed.

(2) (a)  After all of the referendum packets have been received by the lieutenant governor and the lieutenant governor has removed the signatures as required by Section 20A-7-306, the lieutenant governor shall:

(i)  count the number of the names certified by the county clerks that remain on each verified signature sheet; and

(ii)  declare the petition to be sufficient or insufficient no later than 60 days after the end of the legislative session at which the law passed.

(b)  If the total number of names counted under Subsection (2)(a)(i) equals or exceeds the number of names required by Section 20A-7-301 and the requirements of this part are met, the lieutenant governor shall mark upon the front of the petition the word "sufficient."

(c)  If the total number of names counted under Subsection (2)(a)(i) does not equal or exceed the number of names required by Section 20A-7-301 or a requirement of this part is not met, the lieutenant governor shall mark upon the front of the petition the word "insufficient."

(d)  The lieutenant governor shall immediately notify any one of the sponsors of the lieutenant governor's finding.

(3) (a)  If the lieutenant governor refuses to accept and file any referendum petition, any voter may apply to the supreme court for an extraordinary writ to compel the lieutenant governor to do so within 10 days after the refusal.

(b)  If the supreme court determines that the referendum petition is legally sufficient, the lieutenant governor shall file it, with a verified copy of the judgment attached to it, as of the date on which it was originally offered for filing in the lieutenant governor's office.

(c)  If the supreme court determines that any petition filed is not legally sufficient, the supreme court may enjoin the lieutenant governor and all other officers from certifying or printing the ballot title and numbers of that measure on the official ballot.

(4)  A petition determined to be sufficient in accordance with this section is qualified for the ballot.

