20A-7-507.   Evaluation by the local clerk.

(1)  When each initiative packet is received from a county clerk, the local clerk shall check off from the local clerk's record the number of each initiative packet filed.

(2) (a)  After all of the initiative packets have been received by the local clerk, the local clerk shall count the number of the names certified by the county clerk that appear on each verified signature sheet.

(b)  If the total number of certified names from each verified signature sheet equals or exceeds the number of names required by Section 20A-7-501 and the requirements of this part are met, the local clerk shall mark upon the front of the petition the word "sufficient."

(c)  If the total number of certified names from each verified signature sheet does not equal or exceed the number of names required by Section 20A-7-501 or a requirement of this part is not met, the local clerk shall mark upon the front of the petition the word "insufficient."

(d)  The local clerk shall immediately notify any one of the sponsors of the local clerk's finding.

(3)  If the local clerk finds the total number of certified signatures from each verified signature sheet to be insufficient, any sponsor may file a written demand with the local clerk for a recount of the signatures appearing on the initiative petition in the presence of any sponsor.

(4)  Once a petition is declared insufficient, the sponsors may not submit additional signatures to qualify the petition for the ballot.

(5) (a)  If the local clerk refuses to accept and file any initiative petition, any voter may apply to the supreme court for an extraordinary writ to compel him to do so within 10 days after the refusal.

(b)  If the supreme court determines that the initiative petition is legally sufficient, the local clerk shall file it, with a verified copy of the judgment attached to it, as of the date on which it was originally offered for filing in the local clerk's office.

(c)  If the supreme court determines that any petition filed is not legally sufficient, the supreme court may enjoin the local clerk and all other officers from certifying or printing the ballot title and numbers of that measure on the official ballot.

(6)  A petition determined to be sufficient in accordance with this section is qualified for the ballot.



Amended by Chapter 17, 2011 General Session

