20A-7-609.   Form of ballot -- Manner of voting.

(1)  The local clerk shall ensure that the number and ballot title are presented upon the official ballot with, immediately adjacent to them, the words "For" and "Against," each word presented with an adjacent square in which the elector may indicate the elector's vote.

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(c) or (d)(i), and unless the county legislative body calls a special election, the county clerk shall ensure that county referenda that have qualified for the ballot appear on the next regular general election ballot.

(b) Except as provided in Subsection (2)(d)(ii) and unless the municipal legislative body calls a special election, the municipal recorder or clerk shall ensure that municipal referenda that have qualified for the ballot appear on the next regular municipal election ballot.

(c)  For referenda held in relation to the adoption of an ordinance imposing a county option sales and use tax under Section 59-12-1102, the county clerk shall ensure that referenda that have qualified for the ballot appear on the ballot at the earlier of:

(i)  the next regular general election that is more than 155 days after the date of the adoption of the ordinance; or

(ii)  the next municipal general election that is more than 155 days after the date of the adoption of the ordinance.

(d) (i)  If a local law passes after January 30 of the year in which there is a regular general election, the county clerk shall ensure that a county referendum that has qualified for the ballot appears on the ballot at the second regular general election immediately following the passage of the local law unless the county legislative body calls a special election.

(ii)  If a local law passes after January 30 of the year in which there is a municipal general election, the municipal recorder or clerk shall ensure that a municipal referendum that has qualified for the ballot appears on the ballot at the second municipal general election immediately following the passage of the local law unless the municipal legislative body calls a special election.

(3) (a) (i) A voter desiring to vote in favor of the law that is the subject of the referendum shall mark the square adjacent to the word "For."

(ii)  The law that is the subject of the referendum is effective if a majority of voters mark "For."

(b) (i)  A voter desiring to vote against the law that is the subject of the referendum petition shall mark the square following the word "Against."

(ii)  The law that is the subject of the referendum is not effective if a majority of voters mark "Against."



Amended by Chapter 17, 2011 General Session

