20A-7-704.   Initiative measures -- Arguments for and against -- Voters' requests for argument -- Ballot arguments.

(1) (a) (i) (A)  By July 10 of the regular general election year, the sponsors of any initiative petition that has been declared sufficient by the lieutenant governor may deliver to the lieutenant governor an argument for the adoption of the measure.

(B)  If two or more sponsors wish to submit arguments for the measure, the lieutenant governor shall designate one of them to submit the argument for his side of the measure.

(ii) (A)  Any member of the Legislature may request permission to submit an argument against the adoption of the measure.

(B)  If two or more legislators wish to submit an argument against the measure, the presiding officers of the Senate and House of Representatives shall jointly designate one of them to submit the argument to the lieutenant governor.

(b)  The sponsors and the legislators submitting arguments shall ensure that each argument:

(i)  does not exceed 500 words in length; and

(ii)  is delivered by July 10.

(2) (a) (i)  If an argument for or against a measure to be submitted to the voters by initiative petition has not been filed within the time required by Subsection (1), any voter may request the lieutenant governor for permission to prepare an argument for the side on which no argument has been prepared.

(ii)  If two or more voters request permission to submit arguments on the same side of a measure, the lieutenant governor shall designate one of the voters to write the argument.

(b)  Any argument prepared under this subsection shall be submitted to the lieutenant governor by July 20.

(3)  The lieutenant governor may not accept a ballot argument submitted under this section unless it is accompanied by:

(a)  the name and address of the person submitting it, if it is submitted by an individual voter; or

(b)  the name and address of the organization and the names and addresses of at least two of its principal officers, if it is submitted on behalf of an organization.

(4) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(c), the authors may not amend or change the arguments after they are submitted to the lieutenant governor.

(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(c), the lieutenant governor may not alter the arguments in any way.

(c)  The lieutenant governor and the authors of an argument may jointly modify an argument after it is submitted if:

(i)  they jointly agree that changes to the argument must be made to correct spelling or grammatical errors; and

(ii)  the argument has not yet been submitted for typesetting.

