73-10c-1.   Legislative findings.
The Legislature finds that the conservation, development, treatment,
restoration, and protection of the waters of this arid state are a state
purpose and a matter of statewide concern. The needs and requirements
associated with conserving, developing, treating, restoring, and protecting
the waters of this state are of such magnitude and complexity that they
justify state participation and assistance. The federal Safe Drinking Water
Act, 42 United States Code Annotated Secs. 300f et seq. (federal drinking
water act) establishes a national policy to ensure delivery of safe drinking
water to the public, establishes maximum pollution levels, monitoring and
reporting requirements and provides penalties, including the assessment of
fines, for political subdivisions that violate the act. The Federal Water
Pollution Control Act, Title 33, Chapter 26, United States Code (federal water
pollution control act), establishes a national policy and program for the
restoration, preservation, and protection of the nation's waters. The
political subdivisions of this state are prohibited by the federal water
pollution control act from polluting the navigable waters of the United States
and are subject to various penalties, including the assessment of fines, for
failing to meet the minimum standards of the federal water pollution control
act. Pursuant to the requirements of the federal pollution control act, the
state has established water quality standards and effluent limitations with
respect to the waters of this state.  These standards and limitations have
been adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency for the
purpose of issuing permits for wastewater projects and the state must certify
compliance with these standards and limitations in order for the federal
permit to be obtained.  Under the federal water pollution control act, the
state and its political subdivisions may receive grants, subject to the
availability of funds, to meet the requirements of the federal water pollution
control act if the state or its political subdivisions make contributions to
the nonfederal share of construction costs of treatment works. It is desirable
that the state assist in providing financing mechanisms to aid political
subdivisions in securing needed water treatment and transporting water and in
the acquisition and construction of drinking water projects and wastewater
projects in order to accomplish the foregoing purposes, to protect the public
health and welfare, to meet the anticipated growth in the state and to
encourage development of the state's resources.
