73-10c-2.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Board" means the Board of Water Resources created in Section 73-10-1.5.

(2)  "Council" means the Water Development Coordinating Council created by Sections 79-2-201 and 73-10c-3.

(3)  "Credit enhancement agreement" means an agreement entered into according to this chapter between the Drinking Water Board or the Water Quality Board, on behalf of the state, and a political subdivision, for the purpose of providing methods and assistance to political subdivisions to improve the security for and marketability of drinking water project obligations and wastewater project obligations.

(4)  "Drinking Water Board" means the Drinking Water Board appointed according to Section 19-4-103.

(5)  "Drinking water or wastewater project obligation" means, as appropriate, any bond, note, or other obligation of a political subdivision issued to finance all or part of the cost of acquiring, constructing, expanding, upgrading, or improving a drinking water project or wastewater project.

(6) (a)  "Drinking water project" means any work or facility that is necessary or desirable to provide water for human consumption and other domestic uses and:

(i)  has at least 15 service connections; or

(ii)  serves an average of 25 individuals daily for at least 60 days of the year.

(b)  "Drinking water project" includes:

(i)  collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under the control of the operator and used primarily with the system;

(ii)  collection pretreatment or storage facilities used primarily in connection with the system but not under operator's control; and

(iii)  studies, planning, education activities, and design work that will promote protecting the public from waterborne health risks.

(7)  "Financial assistance programs" means the various programs administered by the state whereby loans, grants, and other forms of financial assistance are made available to political subdivisions of this state to finance the costs of water and wastewater projects.

(8)  "Hardship Grant Assessment" means the charge the Water Quality Board or Drinking Water Board assesses to recipients of loans made from the subaccount created in Subsection 73-10c-5(2)(b) or 73-10c-5(3)(b) in lieu of or in addition to interest charged on these loans.

(9)  "Nonpoint source project" means a facility, system, practice, study, activity, or mechanism that abates, prevents, or reduces the pollution of waters of this state by a nonpoint source.

(10)  "Political subdivision" means a county, city, town, improvement district, water conservancy district, special service district, drainage district, metropolitan water district, irrigation district, separate legal or administrative entity created under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, or any other entity constituting a political subdivision under the laws of this state.

(11)  "Security fund" means the Water Development Security Fund created in Section 73-10c-5.

(12)  "Wastewater project" means:

(a)  a sewer, storm or sanitary sewage system, sewage treatment facility, lagoon, sewage collection facility and system, and related pipelines, and all similar systems, works, and facilities necessary or desirable to collect, hold, cleanse, or purify any sewage or other polluted waters of this state; and

(b)  a study, pollution prevention activity, or pollution education activity that will protect the waters of this state.

(13)  "Waters of this state" means any stream, lake, pond, marsh, watercourse, waterway, well, spring, irrigation system, drainage system, or other body or accumulation of water whether surface, underground, natural, artificial, public, private, or other water resource of the state which is contained within or flows in or through the state.

(14)  "Water Quality Board" means the Water Quality Board appointed according to Section 19-5-103.



Amended by Chapter 344, 2009 General Session

