67-5-13.   Limitations on political activities by career status employees.

(1)  An employee in a career status may not, while in a pay status, be a state or federal officer in any partisan political party organization or in any statewide partisan political campaign.  The employee, however, may be an officer or delegate in a partisan political party organization at a county or inferior level or a delegate at a state or national level.

(2)  An employee in career status may not be a candidate for any partisan political office, but upon application to the attorney general the employee shall be granted a leave of absence without pay but without loss of existing seniority to participate in a partisan political campaign either as an officer or as a candidate.  Time spent during the political leave shall not be counted for seniority purposes as being in service.  For the purposes of this section, an employee is not considered to be a candidate until the primary elections have been held.

(3)  An employee in career status may not engage in political activity during the hours of employment, nor may any person solicit political contributions from any employee in career status during hours of employment or through state facilities or in any manner impose assessments on them for political purposes; but nothing in this section shall preclude voluntary contributions to a candidate or a political party.

(4)  Partisan political activity shall not be a basis for employment, promotion, demotion, or dismissal.  Any violation of this section may lead to disciplinary action against the employee, which may consist of reprimand, suspension, demotion, or termination as determined by the attorney general.

(5)  This section shall not be construed to permit partisan political activity by any employee in career status who is prevented or restricted from engaging in this political activity by the provisions of any federal act or the rules and regulations promulgated under it.



Amended by Chapter 166, 2007 General Session

