67-5-24.   Attorney General Crime and Violence Prevention Fund -- Use of money -- Restrictions.

(1)  There is created a restricted special revenue fund known as the Attorney General Crime and Violence Prevention Fund.

(2)  The fund shall consist of gifts, grants, devises, donations, and bequests of real property, personal property, or services, from any source, made to the fund.

(3) (a)  If the donor designates a specific purpose or use for the gift, grant, devise, donation, or bequest, money from the fund shall be used solely for that purpose.

(b)  Gifts, grants, devises, donations, and bequests not designated for a specific purpose under Subsection (3)(a) and that are not restricted to a specific use under federal law, shall be used in connection with the activities under Subsection (4).

(c)  The attorney general or the attorney general's designee shall authorize the expenditure of fund money in accordance with this section.

(d)  The money in the fund may not be used for administrative expenses of the Office of the Attorney General normally provided for by legislative appropriation.

(4)  Except as provided under Subsection (3), the fund money shall be used for any of the following activities:

(a)  the Amber Alert program;

(b)  prevention of crime against seniors;

(c)  prevention of domestic violence and dating violence;

(d)  antidrug use programs;

(e)  preventing gangs and gang violence;

(f)  Internet safety programs;

(g)  mentoring Utah partnerships;

(h)  suicide prevention programs;

(i)  underage drinking programs;

(j)  antipornography programs;

(k)  victims assistance programs;

(l)  identity theft investigations and prosecutions; or

(m)  identity theft reporting system database.

(5)  The state treasurer shall invest the money in the fund under Title 51, Chapter 7, State Money Management Act, except that all interest or other earnings derived from the fund money shall be deposited in the fund.

(6)  The attorney general shall make an annual report to the Legislature regarding the status of the fund, including a report on the contributions received, expenditures made, and programs and services funded.



Enacted by Chapter 124, 2007 General Session

