58-38a-204.   Guidelines for scheduling drugs.
(1) (a)  The committee shall recommend placement of a substance in Schedule I
if it finds:
(i)  that the substance has high potential for abuse; and
(ii)  that an accepted standard has not been established for safe use in
treatment for medical purposes.
(b)  The committee may recommend placement of a substance in Schedule I under
Section 58-37-4 if it finds that the substance is classified as a controlled
substance in Schedule I under federal law.
(2) (a)  The committee shall recommend placement of a substance in Schedule II
if it finds that:
(i)  the substance has high potential for abuse;
(ii)  the substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the
United States, or a currently accepted medical use subject to severe
restrictions; and
(iii)  the abuse of the substance may lead to severe psychological or
physiological dependence.
(b)  The committee may recommend placement of a substance in Schedule II if it
finds that the substance is classified as a controlled substance in Schedule
II under federal law.
(3) (a)  The committee shall recommend placement of a substance in Schedule
III if it finds that:
(i)  the substance has a potential for abuse that is less than the potential
for substances listed in Schedules I and II;
(ii)  the substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the
United States; and
(iii)  abuse of the substance may lead to moderate or low physiological
dependence or high psychological dependence.
(b)  The committee may recommend placement of a substance in Schedule III if
it finds that the substance is classified as a controlled substance in
Schedule III under federal law.
(4) (a)  The committee shall recommend placement of a substance in Schedule IV
if it finds that:
(i)  the substance has a low potential for abuse relative to substances in
Schedule III;
(ii)  the substance has currently accepted medical use in treatment in the
United States; and
(iii)  abuse of the substance may lead to limited physiological dependence or
psychological dependence relative to the substances in Schedule III.
(b)  The committee may recommend placement of a substance in Schedule IV if it
finds that the substance is classified as a controlled substance in Schedule
IV under federal law.
(5) (a)  The committee shall recommend placement of a substance in Schedule V
if it finds that:
(i)  the substance has low potential for abuse relative to the controlled
substances listed in Schedule IV;
(ii)  the substance has currently accepted medical use in treatment in the
United States; and
(iii)  the substance has limited physiological dependence or psychological
dependence liability relative to the controlled substances listed in Schedule
IV.
(b)  The committee may recommend placement of a substance in Schedule V under
this chapter if it finds that the substance is classified as a controlled
substance in Schedule V under federal law.
