4-3-11.   Processors, manufacturers, or distributors -- Unlawful to give
money, equipment, or fixtures to retailer or consumer -- Exceptions -- Shelf
space for dairy products.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "liquid dairy product" means a milk container which contains a pint of
milk or less; and
(b)  "novelty ice cream" means a package or container of ice cream which
contains eight fluid ounces or less.
(2)  Except as provided in Subsections (3) and (4), no processor,
manufacturer, distributor, or  his affiliates, subsidiaries, associates,
agents or stockholders shall furnish, service, repair, give, lease, sell, or
loan to a retailer or consumer any:
(a)  money;
(b)  equipment;
(c)  fixtures, including ice cream cabinets or bulk milk dispensers;
(d)  supplies, excluding expendable supplies commonly provided in connection
with the sale of dairy products to a consumer; or
(e)  other things having a real or substantial value.
(3) (a)  Ice cream cabinets may be loaned or sold to a retailer if the ice
cream cabinet:
(i)  is portable;
(ii)  has a storage capacity not exceeding 12 cubic feet; and
(iii)  is used solely for retail display sales of novelty ice cream.
(b)  Milk coolers may be loaned or sold to a retailer if the milk cooler:
(i)  is portable;
(ii)  has a storage capacity not exceeding 12 cubic feet; and
(iii)  is used solely for retail display sales of liquid dairy products.
(4)  The leasing or renting of cabinets, dispensers, or coolers for dairy
products for civic affairs, demonstrations, or exhibits is prohibited unless
it is for a period of ten days or less in any one period of three consecutive
months.
(5) (a) Except as provided in Subsections (5)(b) and (5)(c), no retailer shall
lease, sell, or loan shelf or refrigerator space for dairy products to a
processor, manufacturer, or distributor or receive anything of value from a
processor, manufacturer, or distributor in exchange for shelf or refrigerator
space for dairy products.
(b)  Subsection (5)(a) does not apply to a dairy by-product that is:
(i)  a short-term special; or
(ii)  a new product being introduced on a trial basis for a period not to
exceed 45 days.
(c)  A processor, manufacturer, or distributor may loan or sell an ice cream
cabinet or milk cooler to a retailer for the display of the processor's,
manufacturer's, or distributor's products, if the ice cream cabinet or milk
cooler meets the requirements of Subsection (3).
