70A-3-104.   Negotiable instrument.
(1)  Except as provided in Subsections (3) and (4), "negotiable instrument"
means an unconditional promise or order to pay a fixed amount of money, with
or without interest or other charges described in the promise or order, if it:
(a)  is payable to bearer or to order at the time it is issued or first comes
into possession of a holder;
(b)  is payable on demand or at a definite time; and
(c)  does not state any other undertaking or instruction by the person
promising or ordering payment to do any act in addition to the payment of
money, but the promise or order may contain:
(i)  an undertaking or power to give, maintain, or protect collateral to
secure payment;
(ii)  an authorization or power to the holder to confess judgment or realize
on or dispose of collateral; or
(iii)  a waiver of the benefit of any law intended for the advantage or
protection of an obligor.
(2)  "Instrument" means a negotiable instrument.
(3)  An order that meets all of the requirements of Subsection (1), except
Subsection (1)(a), and otherwise falls within the definition of "check" in
Subsection (6) is a negotiable instrument and a check.
(4)  A promise or order other than a check is not an instrument if, at the
time it is issued or first comes into possession of a holder, it contains a
conspicuous statement, however expressed, to the effect that the promise or
order is not negotiable or is not an instrument governed by this chapter.
(5)  An instrument is a "note" if it is a promise and is a "draft" if it is an
order.  If an instrument falls within the definition of both "note" and
"draft," a person entitled to enforce the instrument may treat it as either.
(6) (a)  "Check" means:
(i)  a draft, other than a documentary draft, payable on demand and drawn on a
bank;
(ii)  a cashier's check or teller's check; or
(iii)  a demand draft.
(b)  An instrument may be a check even though it is described on its face by
another term, such as "money order."
(7)  "Cashier's check" means a draft with respect to which the drawer and
drawee are the same bank or branches of the same bank.
(8)  "Teller's check" means a draft drawn by a bank either on another bank, or
payable at or through a bank.
(9)  "Traveler's check" means an instrument that:
(a)  is payable on demand;
(b)  is drawn on or payable at or through a bank;
(c)  is designated by the term "traveler's check" or by a substantially
similar term; and
(d)  requires, as a condition to payment, a countersignature by a person whose
specimen signature appears on the instrument.
(10)  "Certificate of deposit" means an instrument containing an
acknowledgment by a bank that a sum of money has been received by the bank and
a promise by the bank to repay the sum of money.  A certificate of deposit is
a note of the bank.
(11)  (a)  "Demand draft" means a writing not signed by a customer that is
created by a third party under the purported authority of the customer for the
purpose of charging the customer's account with a bank.
(b)  A demand draft:
(i)  shall contain the customer's account number;
(ii)  may contain any or all of the following:
(A)  the customer's printed or typewritten name;
(B)  a notation that the customer authorized the draft; or
(C)  the statement "No Signature Required" or words to that effect; and
(iii)  may not include a check purportedly drawn by and bearing the signature
of a fiduciary, as defined in Section 70A-3-307.
