70A-3-206.   Restrictive indorsement.
(1)  An indorsement limiting payment to a particular person or otherwise
prohibiting further transfer or negotiation of the instrument is not effective
to prevent further transfer or negotiation of the instrument.
(2)  An indorsement stating a condition to the right of the indorsee to
receive payment does not affect the right of the indorsee to enforce the
instrument.  A person paying the instrument or taking it for value or
collection may disregard the condition, and the rights and liabilities of that
person are not affected by whether the condition has been fulfilled.
(3)  If an instrument bears an indorsement described in Subsection
70A-4-201(2), or in blank or to a particular bank using the words "for
deposit," "for collection," or other words indicating a purpose of having the
instrument collected by a bank for the indorser or for a particular account,
the following rules apply:
(a)  A person, other than a bank, who purchases the instrument when so
indorsed converts the instrument unless the amount paid for the instrument is
received by the indorser or applied consistently with the indorsement.
(b)  A depositary bank that purchases the instrument or takes it for
collection when so indorsed converts the instrument unless the amount paid by
the bank with respect to the instrument is received by the indorser or applied
consistently with the indorsement.
(c)  A payor bank that is also the depositary bank or that takes the
instrument for immediate payment over the counter from a person other than a
collecting bank converts the instrument unless the proceeds of the instrument
are received by the indorser or applied consistently with the indorsement.
(d)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsection (3)(c), a payor bank or
intermediary bank may disregard the indorsement and is not liable if the
proceeds of the instrument are not received by the indorser or applied
consistently with the indorsement.
(4)  Except for an indorsement covered by Subsection (3), if an instrument
bears an indorsement using words to the effect that payment is to be made to
the indorsee as agent, trustee, or other fiduciary for the benefit of the
indorser or another person, the following rules apply:
(a)  Unless there is notice of breach of fiduciary duty as provided in Section
70A-3-307, a person who purchases the instrument from the indorsee or takes
the instrument from the indorsee for collection or payment may pay the
proceeds of payment or the value given for the instrument to the indorsee
without regard to whether the indorsee violates a fiduciary duty to the
indorser.
(b)  A subsequent transferee of the instrument or person who pays the
instrument is neither given notice nor otherwise affected by the restriction
in the indorsement unless the transferee or payor knows that the fiduciary
dealt with the instrument or its proceeds in breach of fiduciary duty.
(5)  The presence on an instrument of an indorsement to which this section
applies does not prevent a purchaser of the instrument from becoming a holder
in due course of the instrument unless the purchaser is a converter under
Subsection (3) or has notice or knowledge of breach of fiduciary duty as
stated in Subsection (4).
(6)  In an action to enforce the obligation of a party to pay the instrument,
the obligor has a defense if payment would violate an indorsement to which
this section applies and the payment is not permitted by this section.
