70A-3-310.   Effect of instrument on obligation for which taken.
(1)  Unless otherwise agreed, if a certified check, cashier's check, or
teller's check is taken for an obligation, the obligation is discharged to the
same extent discharge would result if an amount of money equal to the amount
of the instrument were taken in payment of the obligation.  Discharge of the
obligation does not affect any liability that the obligor may have as an
indorser of the instrument.
(2)  Unless otherwise agreed and except as provided in Subsection (1), if a
note or an uncertified check is taken for an obligation, the obligation is
suspended to the same extent the obligation would be discharged if an amount
of money equal to the amount of the instrument were taken, and the following
rules apply:
(a)  In the case of an uncertified check, suspension of the obligation
continues until dishonor of the check or until it is paid or certified.
Payment or certification of the check results in discharge of the obligation
to the extent of the amount of the check.
(b)  In the case of a note, suspension of the obligation continues until
dishonor of the note or until it is paid.  Payment of the note results in
discharge of the obligation to the extent of the payment.
(c)  Except as provided in Subsection (d), if the check or note is dishonored
and the obligee of the obligation for which the instrument was taken is the
person entitled to enforce the instrument, the obligee may enforce either the
instrument or the obligation.  In the case of an instrument of a third person
which is negotiated to the obligee by the obligor, discharge of the obligor on
the instrument also discharges the obligation.
(d)  If the person entitled to enforce the instrument taken for an obligation
is a person other than the obligee, the obligee may not enforce the obligation
to the extent the obligation is suspended.  If the obligee is the person
entitled to enforce the instrument but no longer has possession of it because
it was lost, stolen, or destroyed, the obligation may not be enforced to the
extent of the amount payable on the instrument, and to that extent the
obligee's rights against the obligor are limited to enforcement of the
instrument.
(3)  If an instrument other than one described in Subsection (1) or (2) is
taken for an obligation, the effect is that stated in Subsection (1) if the
instrument is one on which a bank is liable as maker or acceptor, or that
stated in Subsection (2) in any other case.
