17-37-4.   Delegation of management and control authority to directors by county executive body -- Contract or lease with private entity for management -- Deposit of money collected -- Expenditures -- Recommendations by directors to county executive body.

(1)  Upon the appointment of a planetarium board of directors, the county executive may delegate to the board of directors the authority to manage and control the functions, activities, operations, maintenance, and repair of any county planetarium, and shall include in its delegation the authority to approve and control all expenditures from the county planetarium fund.  Any delegation of authority made to the board of directors under this section shall at all times be subject to the ultimate authority and responsibility of the county executive for the management and control of all county funds and properties as conferred upon that board by general law applicable to counties.

(2) (a)  Upon the recommendation of the board of directors, the county may enter into a contract or lease agreement with a private organization or entity for partial or full management, operation and maintenance of any county planetarium and for other planetarium services, which may include providing the physical facilities and equipment for the operation of a planetarium.

(b)  A contract or lease for the purposes described in Subsection (2)(a) may not extend for more than a four-year period and shall be subject to annual review by the board of directors to determine if performance is in conformance with the terms of the contract or lease and to establish the level of the subsequent funding pursuant to the contract or lease.

(3)  All money collected from a county planetarium tax levy shall be deposited in the county treasury to the credit of the county planetarium fund.  All money collected from operations of or from donations to any planetarium owned and operated by the county shall also be deposited in the county treasury to the credit of the planetarium fund.  Any money collected from operations of a planetarium by a contracting party or lessee shall be used or deposited as the contract or lease may provide.  Income or proceeds from any investment by the county treasurer of county planetarium funds shall be credited to the county planetarium fund and used only for planetarium purposes.

(4)  Expenditures from the county planetarium fund shall be drawn upon by the authorized officers of the county upon presentation of properly authenticated vouchers or documentation of the board of directors or other appropriate planetarium official.  The fund may not be used for any purpose other than to pay the costs of acquiring, constructing, operating, managing, equipping, furnishing, maintaining or repairing a planetarium, including appropriate, reasonable and proportionate costs allocated by the county for support of the planetarium, or to pay the cost of financing and funding a contract or lease agreement for facilities, equipment, management, operation, and maintenance of a planetarium.

(5)  The board of directors shall provide recommendations to the county executive with respect to the purchase, lease, exchange, construction, erection, or other acquisition of land, real property improvements, and fixtures or the sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition of land, real property improvements, and fixtures for the use or benefit of a county planetarium.



Amended by Chapter 297, 2011 General Session

