67-1-8.1.   Executive Residence Commission -- Recommendations as to use, maintenance, and operation of executive residence.

(1)  The Legislature finds and declares that:

(a)  the state property known as the Thomas Kearns Mansion is a recognized state landmark possessing historical and architectural qualities that should be preserved; and

(b)  the Thomas Kearns Mansion was the first building listed on the National Register of Historic Places in the state.

(2)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Executive residence" includes the:

(i)  Thomas Kearns Mansion;

(ii)  Carriage House building; and

(iii)  grounds and landscaping surrounding the Thomas Kearns Mansion and the Carriage House building.

(b)  "Commission" means the Executive Residence Commission established in this section.

(3) (a)  An Executive Residence Commission is established to make recommendations to the State Building Board for the use, operation, maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, alteration, restoration, placement of art and monuments, or adoptive use of the executive residence.

(b)  The commission shall meet at least once a year and make any recommendations to the State Building Board prior to August 1 of each year.

(4)  The commission shall consist of nine voting members and one ex officio, nonvoting member representing the Governor's Mansion Foundation.  The membership shall consist of:

(a)  three private citizens appointed by the governor, who have demonstrated an interest in historical preservation;

(b)  three additional private citizens appointed by the governor with the following background:

(i)  an interior design professional with a background in historic spaces;

(ii)  an architect with a background in historic preservation and restoration recommended by the Utah chapter of the American Institute of Architects; and

(iii)  a landscape architect with a background and knowledge of historic properties recommended by the Utah chapter of the American Society of Landscape Architects;

(c)  the director, or director's designee, of the Division of Art and Museums;

(d)  the director, or director's designee, of the Division of State History; and

(e)  the executive director, or executive director's designee, of the Department of Administrative Services.

(5) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (5)(b), as terms of current commission members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term ending on March 1.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (5)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of commission members are staggered so that approximately half of the commission is appointed every two years.

(6) (a)  The governor shall appoint a chair from among the membership of the commission.

(b)  Six members of the commission shall constitute a quorum, and either the chair or two other members of the commission may call meetings of the commission.

(7)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(8)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(9)  The Division of Facilities and Construction Management shall provide the administrative support to the commission.

