20A-11-203.   State office candidate -- Financial reporting requirements -- Year-end summary report.

(1) (a)  Each state office candidate shall file a summary report by January 10 of the year after the regular general election year.

(b)  In addition to the requirements of Subsection (1)(a), a former state office candidate that has not filed the statement of dissolution and final summary report required under Section 20A-11-205 shall continue to file a summary report on January 10 of each year.

(2) (a)  Each summary report shall include the following information as of December 31 of the previous year:

(i)  the net balance of the last financial statement, if any;

(ii)  a single figure equal to the total amount of receipts reported on all interim reports, if any;

(iii)  a single figure equal to the total amount of expenditures reported on all interim reports, if any, filed during the previous year;

(iv)  a detailed listing of each contribution and public service assistance received since the last summary report that has not been reported in detail on an interim report;

(v)  for each nonmonetary contribution:

(A)  the fair market value of the contribution with that information provided by the contributor; and

(B)  a specific description of the contribution;

(vi)  a detailed listing of each expenditure made since the last summary report that has not been reported in detail on an interim report;

(vii)  for each nonmonetary expenditure, the fair market value of the expenditure;

(viii)  a net balance for the year consisting of the net balance from the last summary report, if any, plus all receipts minus all expenditures; and

(ix)  the name of a political action committee for which the state office candidate is designated as an officer who has primary decision-making authority under Section 20A-11-601.

(b) (i)  For all single contributions or public service assistance of $50 or less, a single aggregate figure may be reported without separate detailed listings.

(ii)  Two or more contributions from the same source that have an aggregate total of more than $50 may not be reported in the aggregate, but shall be reported separately.

(c)  In preparing the report, all receipts and expenditures shall be reported as of December 31 of the previous year.

(d)  A check or negotiable instrument received by a state office candidate or a state office candidate's personal campaign committee on or before December 31 of the previous year shall be included in the summary report.

(3)  An authorized member of the state office candidate's personal campaign committee or the state office candidate shall certify in the summary report that, to the best of the person's knowledge, all receipts and all expenditures have been reported as of December 31 of the previous year and that there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in that report.

