20A-11-801.   Political issues committees -- Registration -- Criminal
penalty for providing false information or accepting unlawful contribution.
(1) (a)  Each political issues committee shall file a statement of
organization with the lieutenant governor's office by January 10 of each year,
unless the political issues committee has filed a notice of dissolution under
Subsection (4).
(b)  If a political issues committee is organized after the January 10 filing
date, the political issues committee shall file an initial statement of
organization no later than seven days after:
(i)  receiving political issues contributions totaling at least $750; or
(ii)  disbursing political issues expenditures totaling at least $50.
(2)  Each political issues committee shall designate two officers that have
primary decision-making authority for the political issues committee.
(3)  The statement of organization shall include:
(a)  the name and street address of the political issues committee;
(b)  the name, street address, phone number, occupation, and title of the two
primary officers designated under Subsection (2);
(c)  the name, street address, occupation, and title of all other officers of
the political issues committee;
(d)  the name and street address of the organization, individual, corporation,
association, unit of government, or union that the political issues committee
represents, if any;
(e)  the name and street address of all affiliated or connected organizations
and their relationships to the political issues committee;
(f)  the name, street address, business address, occupation, and phone number
of the committee's treasurer or chief financial officer;
(g)  the name, street address, and occupation of each member of the
supervisory and advisory boards, if any; and
(h)  the ballot proposition whose outcome they wish to affect, and whether
they support or oppose it.
(4) (a)  Any registered political issues committee that intends to permanently
cease operations during a calendar year shall file a notice of dissolution
with the lieutenant governor's office.
(b)  Any notice of dissolution filed by a political issues committee does not
exempt that political issues committee from complying with the financial
reporting requirements of this chapter.
(5) (a)  Unless the political issues committee has filed a notice of
dissolution under Subsection (4), a political issues committee shall file,
with the lieutenant governor's office, notice of any change of an officer
described in Subsection (2).
(b)  Notice of a change of a primary officer described in Subsection (2)
shall:
(i)  be filed within ten days of the date of the change; and
(ii)  contain the name and title of the officer being replaced and the name,
street address, occupation, and title of the new officer.
(6) (a)  A person is guilty of providing false information in relation to a
political issues committee if the person intentionally or knowingly gives
false or misleading material information in the statement of organization or
the notice of change of primary officer.
(b)  Each primary officer designated in Subsection (2) is guilty of accepting
an unlawful contribution if the political issues committee knowingly or
recklessly accepts a contribution from a corporation that:
(i)  was organized less than 90 days before the date of the general election;
and
(ii)  at the time the political issues committee accepts the contribution, has
failed to file a statement of organization with the lieutenant governor's
office as required by Section 20A-11-704.
(c)  A violation of this Subsection (6) is a third degree felony.
