20A-11-1202.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Ballot proposition" means constitutional amendments, initiatives, referenda, judicial retention questions, opinion questions, bond approvals, or other questions submitted to the voters for their approval or rejection.

(2) (a)  "Commercial interlocal cooperation agency" means an interlocal cooperation agency that receives its revenues from conduct of its commercial operations.

(b)  "Commercial interlocal cooperation agency" does not mean an interlocal cooperation agency that receives some or all of its revenues from:

(i)  government appropriations;

(ii)  taxes;

(iii)  government fees imposed for regulatory or revenue raising purposes; or

(iv)  interest earned on public funds or other returns on investment of public funds.

(3)  "Expenditure" means:

(a)  a purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, or anything of value;

(b)  an express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make any purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, or anything of value;

(c)  a transfer of funds between a public entity and a candidate's personal campaign committee;

(d)  a transfer of funds between a public entity and a political issues committee; or

(e)  goods or services provided to or for the benefit of a candidate, a candidate's personal campaign committee, or a political issues committee for political purposes at less than fair market value.

(4)  "Governmental interlocal cooperation agency" means an interlocal cooperation agency that receives some or all of its revenues from:

(a)  government appropriations;

(b)  taxes;

(c)  government fees imposed for regulatory or revenue raising purposes; or

(d)  interest earned on public funds or other returns on investment of public funds.

(5) (a)  "Influence" means to campaign or advocate for or against a ballot proposition.

(b)  "Influence" does not mean providing a brief statement about a public entity's position on a ballot proposition and the reason for that position.

(6)  "Interlocal cooperation agency" means an entity created by interlocal agreement under the authority of Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act.

(7)  "Local district" means an entity under Title 17B, Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Local Districts, and includes a special service district under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act.

(8)  "Political purposes" means an act done with the intent or in a way to influence or intend to influence, directly or indirectly, any person to refrain from voting or to vote for or against any candidate for public office at any caucus, political convention, primary, or election.

(9) (a)  "Public entity" includes the state, each state agency, each county, municipality, school district, local district, governmental interlocal cooperation agency, and each administrative subunit of each of them.

(b)  "Public entity" does not include a commercial interlocal cooperation agency.

(c)  "Public entity" includes local health departments created under Title 26, Chapter 1, Department of Health Organization.

(10) (a)  "Public funds" means any money received by a public entity from appropriations, taxes, fees, interest, or other returns on investment.

(b)  "Public funds" does not include money donated to a public entity by a person or entity.

(11) (a)  "Public official" means an elected or appointed member of government with authority to make or determine public policy.

(b)  "Public official" includes the person or group that:

(i)  has supervisory authority over the personnel and affairs of a public entity; and

(ii)  approves the expenditure of funds for the public entity.

(12) (a)  "State agency" means each department, commission, board, council, agency, institution, officer, corporation, fund, division, office, committee, authority, laboratory, library, unit, bureau, panel, or other administrative unit of the state.

(b)  "State agency" includes the legislative branch, the Board of Regents, the institutional councils of each higher education institution, and each higher education institution.



Amended by Chapter 60, 2009 General Session

