53A-13-101.4.   Instruction in American history and government -- Study and posting of American heritage documents.

(1)  The Legislature recognizes that a proper understanding of American history and government is essential to good citizenship, and that the public schools are the primary public institutions charged with responsibility for assisting children and youth in gaining that understanding.

(2) (a)  The State Board of Education and local school boards shall periodically review school curricula and activities to ensure that effective instruction in American history and government is taking place in the public schools.

(b)  The boards shall solicit public input as part of the review process.

(c)  Instruction in American history and government shall include a study of:

(i)  forms of government, such as a republic, a pure democracy, a monarchy, and an oligarchy;

(ii)  political philosophies and economic systems, such as socialism, individualism, and free market capitalism; and

(iii)  the United States' form of government, a compound constitutional republic.

(3)  School curricula and activities shall include a thorough study of historical documents such as:

(a)  the Declaration of Independence;

(b)  the United States Constitution;

(c)  the national motto;

(d)  the pledge of allegiance;

(e)  the national anthem;

(f)  the Mayflower Compact;

(g)  the writings, speeches, documents, and proclamations of the Founders and the Presidents of the United States;

(h)  organic documents from the pre-Colonial, Colonial, Revolutionary, Federalist, and post Federalist eras;

(i)  United States Supreme Court decisions;

(j)  Acts of the United States Congress, including the published text of the Congressional Record; and

(k)  United States treaties.

(4)  To increase student understanding of, and familiarity with, American historical documents, public schools may display historically important excerpts from, or copies of, those documents in school classrooms and common areas as appropriate.

(5)  There shall be no content-based censorship of American history and heritage documents referred to in this section due to their religious or cultural nature.

(6)  Public schools shall display "In God we trust," which is declared in 36 U.S.C. 302 to be the national motto of the United States, in one or more prominent places within each school building.

