53A-13-208.   Driver education teachers certified as license examiners.

(1)  The Driver License Division of the Department of Public Safety and the State Board of Education through the State Office of Education shall establish procedures and standards to certify teachers of driver education classes under this part to administer written and driving tests.

(2)  The division is the certifying authority.

(3) (a)  A teacher certified under this section shall give written and driving tests designed for driver education classes authorized under this part.

(b)  The Driver License Division shall, in conjunction with the State Office of Education, establish minimal standards for the driver education class tests that are at least as difficult as those required to receive a class D operator's license under Title 53, Chapter 3, Uniform Drivers License Act.

(c)  A student who passes the written test but fails the driving test given by a teacher certified under this section may apply for a learner permit or class D operator's license under Title 53, Chapter 3, Part 2, Driver Licensing Act, and complete the driving test at a Driver License Division office.

(4)  A student shall have a learner permit issued by the Driver License Division under Section 53-3-210.5 in the student's immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle under this section.

(5)  A student who successfully passes the tests given by a certified driver education teacher under this section satisfies the written and driving parts of the test required for a learner permit or class D operator's license.

(6)  The Driver License Division and the State Board of Education shall establish procedures to enable school districts to administer or process any tests for students to receive a learner permit or class D operator's license.

(7)  The division and board shall establish the standards and procedures required under this section by rules made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.



Amended by Chapter 382, 2008 General Session

