48-2c-207.   Filing requirements.

(1)  A document must satisfy the requirements of this section, and of any other section of this chapter that adds to or varies these requirements, to be entitled to be filed with the division.

(2)  This chapter must require or permit filing the document with the division.

(3)  The document must contain the information required by this chapter.  It may contain other information as well.

(4)  The document must be typewritten or machine printed.

(5)  The document must be in the English language.  A company name need not be in English if written in English letters, Arabic or Roman numerals, and the certificate of existence required of foreign companies need not be in English if accompanied by a reasonably authenticated English translation.

(6)  The document must be signed, or must be a true copy made by a photographic, xerographic, electronic, or other process that provides similar copy accuracy of a document that has been signed:

(a)  as required by Section 48-2c-204;

(b)  if the company is in the hands of a receiver, trustee, or other court-appointed fiduciary, by that fiduciary; or

(c)  if the document is that of a registered agent, by the registered agent, if the person is an individual, or by a person authorized by the registered agent to execute the document, if the registered agent is an entity.

(7)  If the division has prescribed a mandatory form or cover sheet for the document, the document must be in or on the prescribed form or must have the required cover sheet.

(8)  The document must be delivered to the division for filing and must be accompanied by the correct filing fee and any franchise tax, license fee, or penalty required by this chapter or other law.

(9)  If the person filing a document with the division desires to receive back a copy of the filed document, that person must submit with the filed document an exact copy of the filed document along with a return-addressed envelope with adequate first-class postage thereon.



Enacted by Chapter 260, 2001 General Session 

Repealed by Chapter 353, 2011 General Session

