48-2c-409.   Restated articles of organization.
(1)  A company may integrate into a single document all of the provisions of
its articles of organization and amendments thereto, and it may at the same
time also further amend its articles of organization, by adopting restated or
amended and restated articles of organization.
(2)  If the restated articles of organization merely restate and integrate but
do not further amend the initial articles of organization, as previously
amended or supplemented by any certificate or document that was signed and
filed pursuant to this chapter, they shall be specifically designated in their
heading as "Restated Articles of Organization", together with other words that
the company considers appropriate, and shall be filed with the division.
(3)  If the restated articles restate and integrate and also further amend in
any respect the articles of organization, as previously amended or
supplemented, they shall be specifically designated in their heading as
"Amended and Restated Articles of Organization", together with other words
that the company considers appropriate, and shall be filed with the division.
(4) (a)  Restated articles of organization shall state, either in their
heading or in an introductory paragraph, the company's present name, and, if
it has been changed, the name under which it was originally filed and the date
of filing of its original articles of organization with the division.
Restated articles shall also state that they were duly signed and filed in
accordance with this section.
(b)  If the restated articles only restate and integrate and do not further
amend the provisions of the articles of organization as previously amended or
supplemented and there is no discrepancy between those provisions and the
provisions of the restated articles, they shall so state.
(5)  Upon the filing of restated articles of organization with the division,
the initial articles, as previously amended or supplemented, shall be
superseded.  Thereafter, the restated articles of organization, including any
further amendment or changes made by the restated articles, shall be the
articles of organization, but the original effective date of formation shall
remain unchanged.
(6)  Any amendment or change made in connection with the restatement and
integration of the articles of organization shall be subject to any other
provision of this chapter not inconsistent with this section, that would apply
if a separate certificate of amendment were filed to make the amendment or
change.
