48-2c-611.   Distributions concerning a series.
(1)  Subject to an operating agreement, at the time a member associated with a
series becomes entitled to receive a distribution with respect to the series,
the member has the status of, and is entitled to all remedies available to, a
creditor of the series with respect to the distribution.
(2)  An operating agreement may provide for the establishment of a record date
for allocations and distributions concerning a series.
(3)  Notwithstanding Section 48-2c-1005, a limited liability company may make
a limited distribution with respect to a series only.
(4)  No distribution may be made by a company under this section with respect
to a series if, after giving effect to the distribution:
(a)  the series would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the
usual and regular course of its business; or
(b)  the value of the series' total assets would be less than the sum of:
(i)  its total liabilities; and
(ii)  unless the articles of organization or the operating agreement permit
otherwise, the amount that would be needed, if the series were to be dissolved
and wound up at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential
rights upon dissolution and winding up of members whose preferential rights
are superior to the rights of members receiving the distribution.
(5)  The company may base a determination that a distribution is not
prohibited under Subsection (4) either on:
(a)  financial statements prepared on the basis of accounting practices and
principles that are reasonable in the circumstances; or
(b)  a fair valuation or other method that is reasonable in the circumstances.
(6)  For purposes of this section, amounts constituting reasonable
compensation for present or past services or reasonable payments made in the
ordinary course of business pursuant to a bona fide retirement plan or other
benefits program do not constitute a distribution.
(7)  A member who receives a distribution in violation of this section is
liable to the series for the amount of the distribution.
(8)  Subject to Section 48-2c-1006, this section does not affect any
obligation or liability of a member under an agreement or other applicable law
for the amount of a distribution.
