48-2c-706.   Action by members without a meeting.
(1)  Unless otherwise provided in the articles of organization or operating
agreement, and subject to the limitations of Subsection (5), any action which
may be taken by the members may be taken without any meeting and without prior
notice, if one or more consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken,
shall be signed by the members holding interests in the company not less than
the minimum percentage that would be necessary to authorize or take that
action.
(2) (a)  Unless the written consents of all members entitled to vote have been
obtained, notice of any member approval without a meeting shall be given at
least five days before the consummation of the transaction, action, or event
authorized by the member action to those entitled to vote who have not
consented in writing.
(b)  The notice must contain or be accompanied by a description of the
transaction, action, or event.
(3)  Provided the notice described in Subsection (2) is given, action taken by
the members pursuant to this section is effective as of the date the last
written consent necessary to authorize or take the action is received by the
company, unless all of the written consents specify a later date as the
effective date of the action, in which case the later date shall be the
effective date of the action.  If the company has received written consents as
contemplated by Subsection (1), signed by all members entitled to vote with
respect to the action, the effective date of the action may be any date that
is specified in all of the written consents.
(4)  Unless otherwise provided in the operating agreement, any consent or
writing may be received by the company by any electronically transmitted or
other form of communication that provides the company with a complete copy
thereof, including the signature thereto.
(5)  Any member or an authorized representative of that member may revoke a
consent by a signed writing describing the action and stating that the
member's prior consent is revoked, if the writing is received by the company
prior to the effective date and time of the action.
(6)  A member action taken pursuant to this section is not effective unless
all written consents on which the company relies for taking an action pursuant
to Subsection (1) are received by the company within a 60-day period and not
revoked pursuant to Subsection (5).
(7)  Written consent of the members entitled to vote constitutes approval of
the members and may be described as such in any document.
