48-2c-1603.   Consequences of transacting business without authority.
(1)  A foreign company transacting business in this state without authority,
or anyone in its behalf, may not maintain a proceeding in any court in this
state until an application for authority to transact business is filed with
the division.
(2)  The successor to a foreign company that transacted business in this state
without authority and the assignee of a cause of action arising out of that
business may not maintain a proceeding based on that cause of action in any
court in this state until an application for authority to transact business is
filed on behalf of the foreign company or its successor.
(3)  A court may stay a proceeding commenced by a foreign company, its
successor, or assignee until it determines whether the foreign company, its
successor, or assignee is required to file an application for authority to
transact business.  If it so determines, the court may further stay the
proceeding until the required application for authority to transact business
has been filed with the division.
(4)  A foreign company that transacts business in this state without authority
is subject to a civil penalty, payable to this state, of $100 for each day in
which it transacts business in this state without authority.  However, the
penalty may not exceed a total of $5,000 for each year.  Each manager or
member of a foreign company who authorizes, directs, or participates in the
transaction of business in this state without authority and each agent of a
foreign company who transacts business in this state on behalf of a foreign
company that is not authorized is subject to a civil penalty, payable to this
state, not exceeding $1,000 for each year.
(5)  The civil penalties set forth in Subsection (4) may be recovered in an
action brought in the district court for Salt Lake County or in any other
county in this state in which the foreign company has an office or in which it
has transacted business.  Upon a finding by the court that a foreign company
or any of its managers, members, or agents has transacted business in this
state in violation of this part, the court shall issue, in addition to or
instead of a civil penalty, an injunction restraining the further transaction
of the business of the foreign company and the further exercise of any rights
and privileges in this state.  Upon issuance of the injunction, the foreign
company shall be enjoined from transacting business in this state until all
civil penalties have been paid, plus any interest and court costs assessed by
the court, and until the foreign company has otherwise complied with the
provisions of this part.
(6)  Notwithstanding Subsections (1) and (2), the failure of a foreign company
to have authority to transact business in this state does not impair the
validity of its acts, nor does the failure prevent the foreign company from
defending any proceeding in this state.
