15-9-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Agency contract" means an agreement in which a student-athlete
authorizes a person to negotiate or solicit on behalf of the student-athlete a
professional-sports-services contract or an endorsement contract.
(2)  "Athlete agent" means an individual who enters into an agency contract
with a student-athlete or, directly or indirectly, recruits or solicits a
student-athlete to enter into an agency contract.  The term includes an
individual who represents to the public that the individual is an athlete
agent.  The term does not include a spouse, parent, sibling, or grandparent of
the student-athlete or an individual acting solely on behalf of a professional
sports team or professional sports organization.
(3)  "Athletic director" means an individual responsible for administering the
overall athletic program of an educational institution or, if an educational
institution has separately administered athletic programs for male students
and female students, the athletic program for males or the athletic program
for females, as appropriate.
(4)  "Contact" means a communication, direct or indirect, between an athlete
agent and a student-athlete, to recruit or solicit the student-athlete to
enter into an agency contract.
(5)  "Division" means the Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing
created in Section 58-1-103.
(6)  "Endorsement contract" means an agreement under which a student-athlete
is employed or receives consideration to use on behalf of the other party any
value that the student-athlete may have because of publicity, reputation,
following, or fame obtained because of athletic ability or performance.
(7)  "Intercollegiate sport" means a sport played at the collegiate level for
which eligibility requirements for participation by a student-athlete are
established by a national association for the promotion or regulation of
collegiate athletics.
(8)  "Person" means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture,
government, governmental subdivision, agency, or instrumentality, public
corporation, or any other legal or commercial entity.
(9)  "Professional-sports-services contract" means an agreement under which an
individual is employed or agrees to render services as a player on a
professional sports team, with a professional sports organization, or as a
professional athlete.
(10)  "Record" means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or
that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in
perceivable form.
(11)  "Registration" means registration as an athlete agent pursuant to this
chapter.
(12)  "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any territory or insular
possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(13)  "Student-athlete" means an individual who engages in, is eligible to
engage in, or may be eligible in the future to engage in, any intercollegiate
sport.  If an individual is permanently ineligible to participate in a
particular intercollegiate sport, the individual is not a student-athlete for
purposes of that sport.
