15-9-106.   Certificate of registration -- Issuance or denial -- Renewal.
(1)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsection (2), the division shall issue
a certificate of registration to an individual who complies with Subsection
15-9-105(1) or whose application has been accepted under Subsection
15-9-105(2).
(2)  The division may refuse to issue a certificate of registration if the
division determines that the applicant has engaged in conduct that has a
significant adverse effect on the applicant's fitness to act as an athlete
agent.  In making the determination, the division may consider whether the
applicant has:
(a)  been convicted of a crime that, if committed in this state, would be a
crime involving moral turpitude or a felony;
(b)  made a materially false, misleading, deceptive, or fraudulent
representation in the application or as an athlete agent;
(c)  engaged in conduct that would disqualify the applicant from serving in a
fiduciary capacity;
(d)  engaged in conduct prohibited by Section 15-9-114;
(e)  had a registration or licensure as an athlete agent suspended, revoked,
or denied or been refused renewal of registration or licensure as an athlete
agent in any state;
(f)  engaged in conduct the consequence of which was that a sanction,
suspension, or declaration of ineligibility to participate in an
interscholastic or intercollegiate athletic event was imposed on a student-
athlete or educational institution; or
(g)  engaged in conduct that significantly, adversely reflects on the
applicant's credibility, honesty, or integrity.
(3)  In making a determination under Subsection (2), the division shall
consider:
(a)  how recently the conduct occurred;
(b)  the nature of the conduct and the context in which it occurred; and
(c)  any other relevant conduct of the applicant.
(4)  An athlete agent may apply to renew a registration by submitting an
application for renewal in a form prescribed by the division.  An application
filed under this section is a public record under Title 63G, Chapter 2,
Government Records Access and Management Act.  The application for renewal
must be signed by the applicant under penalty of perjury and must contain
current information on all matters required in an original registration.
(5)  An individual who has submitted an application for renewal of
registration or licensure in another state, in lieu of submitting an
application for renewal in the form prescribed pursuant to Subsection (4), may
file a copy of the application for renewal and a valid certificate of
registration or licensure from the other state.  The division shall accept the
application for renewal from the other state as an application for renewal in
this state if the application to the other state:
(a)  was submitted in the other state within six months immediately preceding
the filing in this state and the applicant certifies the information contained
in the application for renewal is current;
(b)  contains information substantially similar to or more comprehensive than
that required in an application for renewal submitted in this state; and
(c)  was signed by the applicant under penalty of perjury.
(6)  A certificate of registration or a renewal of a registration is valid for
two years.
