10-9a-510.   Limit on fees -- Requirement to itemize fees -- Appeal of fee -- Provider of culinary or secondary water.

(1)  A municipality may not impose or collect a fee for reviewing or approving the plans for a commercial or residential building that exceeds the lesser of:

(a)  the actual cost of performing the plan review; and

(b)  65% of the amount the municipality charges for a building permit fee for that building.

(2)  Subject to Subsection (1), a municipality may impose and collect only a nominal fee for reviewing and approving identical floor plans.

(3)  A municipality may not impose or collect a hookup fee that exceeds the reasonable cost of installing and inspecting the pipe, line, meter, and appurtenance to connect to the municipal water, sewer, storm water, power, or other utility system.

(4)  A municipality may not impose or collect:

(a)  a land use application fee that exceeds the reasonable cost of processing the application or issuing the permit; or

(b)  an inspection, regulation, or review fee that exceeds the reasonable cost of performing the inspection, regulation, or review.

(5) (a)  If requested by an applicant who is charged a fee or an owner of residential property upon which a fee is imposed, the municipality shall provide an itemized fee statement that shows the calculation method for each fee.

(b)  If an applicant who is charged a fee or an owner of residential property upon which a fee is imposed submits a request for an itemized fee statement no later than 30 days after the day on which the applicant or owner pays the fee, the municipality shall no later than 10 days after the day on which the request is received provide or commit to provide within a specific time:

(i)  for each fee, any studies, reports, or methods relied upon by the municipality to create the calculation method described in Subsection (5)(a);

(ii)  an accounting of each fee paid;

(iii)  how each fee will be distributed; and

(iv)  information on filing a fee appeal through the process described in Subsection (5)(c).

(c)  A municipality shall establish a fee appeal process subject to an appeal authority described in Part 7, Appeal Authority and Variances, and district court review in accordance with Part 8, District Court Review, to determine whether a fee reflects only the reasonable estimated cost of:

(i)  regulation;

(ii)  processing an application;

(iii)  issuing a permit; or

(iv)  delivering the service for which the applicant or owner paid the fee.

(6)  A municipality may not impose on or collect from a public agency any fee associated with the public agency's development of its land other than:

(a)  subject to Subsection (4), a fee for a development service that the public agency does not itself provide;

(b)  subject to Subsection (3), a hookup fee; and

(c)  an impact fee for a public facility listed in Subsection 11-36a-102(15)(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), or (g), subject to any applicable credit under Subsection 11-36a-402(2).

(7)  A provider of culinary or secondary water that commits to provide a water service required by a land use application process is subject to the following as if it were a municipality:

(a)  Subsections (5) and (6);

(b)  Section 10-9a-508; and

(c)  Section 10-9a-509.5.

