10-9a-511.   Nonconforming uses and noncomplying structures.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in this section, a nonconforming use or
noncomplying structure may be continued by the present or a future property
owner.
(b)  A nonconforming use may be extended through the same building, provided
no structural alteration of the building is proposed or made for the purpose
of the extension.
(c)  For purposes of this Subsection (1), the addition of a solar energy
device to a building is not a structural alteration.
(2)  The legislative body may provide for:
(a)  the establishment, restoration, reconstruction, extension, alteration,
expansion, or substitution of nonconforming uses upon the terms and conditions
set forth in the land use ordinance;
(b)  the termination of all nonconforming uses, except billboards, by
providing a formula establishing a reasonable time period during which the
owner can recover or amortize the amount of his investment in the
nonconforming use, if any; and
(c)  the termination of a nonconforming use due to its abandonment.
(3) (a)  A municipality may not prohibit the reconstruction or restoration of
a noncomplying structure or terminate the nonconforming use of a structure
that is involuntarily destroyed in whole or in part due to fire or other
calamity unless the structure or use has been abandoned.
(b)  A municipality may prohibit the reconstruction or restoration of a
noncomplying structure or terminate the nonconforming use of a structure if:
(i)  the structure is allowed to deteriorate to a condition that the structure
is rendered uninhabitable and is not repaired or restored within six months
after written notice to the property owner that the structure is uninhabitable
and that the noncomplying structure or nonconforming use will be lost if the
structure is not repaired or restored within six months; or
(ii)  the property owner has voluntarily demolished a majority of the
noncomplying structure or the building that houses the nonconforming use.
(c) (i)  Notwithstanding a prohibition in its zoning ordinance, a municipality
may permit a billboard owner to relocate the billboard within the
municipality's boundaries to a location that is mutually acceptable to the
municipality and the billboard owner.
(ii)  If the municipality and billboard owner cannot agree to a mutually
acceptable location within 90 days after the owner submits a written request
to relocate the billboard, the provisions of Subsection 10-9a-513(2)(a)(iv)
apply.
(4) (a)  Unless the municipality establishes, by ordinance, a uniform
presumption of legal existence for nonconforming uses, the property owner
shall have the burden of establishing the legal existence of a noncomplying
structure or nonconforming use.
(b)  Any party claiming that a nonconforming use has been abandoned shall have
the burden of establishing the abandonment.
(c)  Abandonment may be presumed to have occurred if:
(i)  a majority of the primary structure associated with the nonconforming use
has been voluntarily demolished without prior written agreement with the
municipality regarding an extension of the nonconforming use;
(ii)  the use has been discontinued for a minimum of one year; or
(iii)  the primary structure associated with the nonconforming use remains
vacant for a period of one year.
(d)  The property owner may rebut the presumption of abandonment under
Subsection (4)(c), and shall have the burden of establishing that any claimed
abandonment under Subsection (4)(b) has not in fact occurred.
(5)  A municipality may terminate the nonconforming status of a school
district or charter school use or structure when the property associated with
the school district or charter school use or structure ceases to be used for
school district or charter school purposes for a period established by
ordinance.
(6)  A municipal ordinance adopted under Section 10-1-203 may not:
(a)  require physical changes in a structure with a legal nonconforming rental
housing use; or
(b)  be enforced to terminate a legal nonconforming rental housing use.
(7)  A legal nonconforming rental housing use may not be terminated under
Section 10-1-203.
