73-2-25.   State engineer enforcement powers.

(1)  For purposes of this section, "initial order" means one of the following issued by the state engineer:

(a)  a notice of violation; or

(b)  a cease and desist order.

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), the state engineer may commence an enforcement action under this section if the state engineer finds that a person:

(i)  is diverting, impounding, or using water for which no water right has been established;

(ii)  is diverting, impounding, or using water in violation of an existing water right;

(iii)  violates Section 73-5-4;

(iv)  violates Section 73-5-9;

(v)  violates a written distribution order from the state engineer;

(vi)  violates an order issued under Section 73-3-29 regarding the alteration of the bed or bank of a natural stream channel;

(vii)  violates a notice or order regarding dam safety issued under Chapter 5a, Dam Safety;

(viii)  fails to submit a report required by Section 73-3-25; or

(ix)  engages in well drilling without a license required by Section 73-3-25.

(b)  The state engineer may not commence an enforcement action against a person under Subsection (2)(a)(i), if the person directly captures, or stores, precipitation on the surface of, or under, a parcel owned or leased by the person, including in a catch basin, storm drain pipe, swell, or pond, if the collection or storage:

(i)  is consistent with local laws and ordinances;

(ii)  does not interfere with an existing water right; and

(iii)  is designed to slow, detain, or retain storm water or protect watersheds from pollution with the intention that the precipitation:

(A)  absorbs into the ground or is released for discharge; and

(B)  is not put to beneficial use.

(c)  To commence an enforcement action under this section, the state engineer shall issue an initial order, which shall include:

(i)  a description of the violation;

(ii)  notice of any penalties to which a person may be subject under Section 73-2-26; and

(iii)  notice that the state engineer may treat each day's violation of the provisions listed in Subsection (2)(a) as a separate violation under Subsection 73-2-26(1)(d).

(d)  The state engineer's issuance and enforcement of an initial order is exempt from Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.

(3)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the state engineer shall make rules necessary to enforce an initial order, which shall include:

(a)  provisions consistent with this section and Section 73-2-26 for enforcement of the initial order if a person to whom an initial order is issued fails to respond to the order or abate the violation;

(b)  the right to a hearing, upon request by a person against whom an initial order is issued; and

(c)  provisions for timely issuance of a final order after:

(i)  the person to whom the initial order is issued fails to respond to the order or abate the violation; or

(ii)  a hearing held under Subsection (3)(b).

(4)  A person may not intervene in an enforcement action commenced under this section.

(5)  After issuance of a final order under rules made pursuant to Subsection (3)(c), the state engineer shall serve a copy of the final order on the person against whom the order is issued by:

(a)  personal service under Utah Rules of Civil Procedure 5; or

(b)  certified mail.

(6) (a)  The state engineer's final order may be reviewed by trial de novo by the district court in:

(i)  Salt Lake County; or

(ii)  the county where the violation occurred.

(b)  A person shall file a petition for judicial review of the state engineer's final order issued under this section within 20 days from the day on which the final order was served on that person.

(7)  The state engineer may bring suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce a final order issued under this section.

(8)  If the state engineer prevails in an action brought under Subsection (6)(b) or (7), the state may recover all court costs and a reasonable attorney fee.



Amended by Chapter 260, 2013 General Session

