54-8-5.   Apportionment of costs -- Assessment against benefitted property
-- Public lands not subject to assessment.
(1)  If an improvement district is created as provided in this chapter, the
governing body of the county or municipality that created the improvement
district may levy an assessment on property within the district.
(2) (a)  If an assessment is levied under this section, it shall be levied on
all blocks, lots, parts of blocks, and lots, tracts, or parcels of property
bounding, abutting upon, or adjacent to the improvements or affected or
specially benefitted by the improvements to the extent of the benefits to the
property because of the improvements.
(b)  The benefits to the property may be indirect and need not actually
increase the fair market value of the property.
(3)  A governing body may levy an assessment under this section to the full
depth of the property or to the depth determined by the governing body.
(4)  Assessments under this section shall be equal and uniform according to
the benefits received.
(5) (a)  Assessments may be according to area, frontage, assessed value,
taxable value, lot, number of connections, or any combination of these
methods, as the governing body considers fair and equitable.
(b)  Different improvements in an improvement district may be assessed
according to different methods.
(c)  The governing body shall make an allowance for corner lots so that they
are not assessed at full rate on both sides adjacent to the street.
(6)  The entire cost of the improvement may be assessed against the benefitted
property as provided in this section or, if money for paying part of such cost
is available from any other source, the money so available may be so applied
and the remaining cost so assessed against the benefitted property.
(7)  The cost and expenses to be assessed as provided in this section shall
include the contract price of the improvement, engineering and clerical
services, advertising, cost of inspection, cost of collecting assessments, and
interest upon bonds if issued, and for legal services for preparing
proceedings and advising in regard thereto.
(8)  Fee lands and property of public entities such as the federal government,
the state, or any county, city, or town may not be considered as lands or
property benefitted by any improvement district, and, unless such public
entity within the boundaries of an improvement district consents in writing,
filed before the governing body adopts the resolution provided for in Section
54-8-8, the lands and property of such public entity shall not be subject to
assessment for the payment of any of the cost or expense of such improvement.
