54-8-22.   Bonds -- Issuance authorized -- Amount -- Interest -- Additional
requirements.
After the expiration of 30 days from the date of the adoption of the
resolution levying the assessments, the county legislative body may issue
negotiable interest-bearing bonds in a principal amount not exceeding the
unpaid balance of the assessments levied.  The bonds shall bear interest at
not exceeding 7% per annum, payable semiannually or annually, and shall mature
serially over a period not exceeding twenty years, but in no event shall such
bonds extend over a longer period of time than the period of time over which
such installments of special assessments are due and payable and 90 days
thereafter.  The bonds shall be of such form and denomination and shall be
payable in principal and interest at such times and place, and shall be sold,
authorized, and issued in such manner as the county legislative body may
determine.  The bonds shall be dated no earlier than the date on which the
special assessment shall begin to bear interest, and shall be secured by and
payable from the irrevocable pledge and dedication of the funds derived from
the levy and collection of the special assessments in anticipation of the
collection of which they are issued.  Any premium received on the sale of the
bonds may be applied as other bond proceeds or if not so applied the same
shall be placed in the fund for the payment of principal of and interest on
the bonds.  The bonds shall be callable for redemption from the proceeds of
any property sold for the nonpayment of special assessments but not otherwise
unless the bonds on the face thereof provide for redemption prior to maturity,
and the county legislative body may provide that the bonds shall be redeemable
on any interest payment date or dates prior to maturity pursuant to such
notice and at such premiums as it deems advisable.  The bonds shall be signed
by the county executive and the chair of the county legislative body and shall
be countersigned by the city recorder or the clerk of the board of the town
trustees or the clerk of the county legislative body, whichever is applicable,
and one of such signatures may be a facsimile signature.  Interest may be
evidenced by interest coupons attached to such bonds and signed by a facsimile
signature of one of the individuals who signed the bond.
