54-8-23.   Objection to amount of assessment -- Civil action -- Litigation
to question or attack proceedings or legality of bonds.
(1)  No special assessment levied under this chapter shall be declared void,
nor shall any such assessment or part thereof be set aside in consequence of
any error or irregularity permitted or appearing in any of the proceedings
under this chapter, but any party feeling aggrieved by any such special
assessment or proceeding may bring a civil action to cause such grievance to
be adjudicated if such action is commenced prior to the expiration of the
period specified in this section.
(2)  The burden of proof to show that such special assessment or part thereof
is invalid, inequitable or unjust shall rest upon the party who brings such
suit.
(3)  Any such litigation shall not be regarded as an appeal within the meaning
of the prohibition contained in Section 54-8-18.
(4)  Every person whose property is subject to such special assessment and who
fails to appear during the public hearings on said assessments to raise his
objection to such tax shall be deemed to have waived all objections to such
levy except the objection that the governing body lacks jurisdiction to levy
such tax.
(5)  For a period of twenty days after the governing body has adopted the
enactment authorizing the assessment, any taxpayer in the district shall have
the right to institute litigation for the purpose of questioning or attacking
the proceedings pursuant to which the assessments have been authorized subject
to the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
(6)  Whenever any enactment authorizing the issuance of any bonds pursuant to
the improvement contemplated shall have been adopted such resolution shall be
published:
(a)  once in a newspaper in which the original notice of hearing was
published; and
(b)  as required in Section 45-1-101.
(7)  For a period of 20 days thereafter, any person whose property shall have
been assessed and any taxpayer in the district shall have the right to
institute litigation for the purpose of questioning or attacking the legality
of such bonds.
(8)  After the expiration of such 20-day period, all proceedings theretofore
had by the governing body, the bonds to be issued pursuant thereto, and the
special assessments from which such bonds are to be paid, shall become
incontestable, and no suit attacking or questioning the legality thereof may
be instituted in this state, and no court shall have the authority to inquire
into such matters.
