34-28-5.   Separation from payroll -- Resignation -- Cessation because of industrial dispute.

(1) (a)  Whenever an employer separates an employee from the employer's payroll the unpaid wages of the employee become due immediately, and the employer shall pay the wages to the employee within 24 hours of the time of separation at the specified place of payment.

(b) (i)  In case of failure to pay wages due an employee within 24 hours of written demand, the wages of the employee shall continue from the date of demand until paid, but in no event to exceed 60 days, at the same rate that the employee received at the time of separation.

(ii)  The employee may recover the penalty thus accruing to the employee in a civil action.  This action must be commenced within 60 days from the date of separation.

(iii)  An employee who has not made a written demand for payment is not entitled to any penalty under Subsection (1)(b).

(2)  If an employee  does not have a written contract for a definite period and resigns  the employee's employment, the wages earned and unpaid together with any deposit held by the employer and properly belonging to the resigned employee for the performance of the employee's employment duties become due and payable on the next regular payday.

(3)  If work ceases as the result of an industrial dispute, the wages earned and unpaid at the time of this cessation become due and payable at the next regular payday, as provided in Section 34-28-3, including, without abatement or reduction, all amounts due all persons whose work has been suspended as a result of the industrial dispute, together with any deposit or other guaranty held by the employer for the faithful performance of the duties of the employment.

(4)  This section does not apply to the earnings of a sales agent employed on a commission basis who has custody of accounts, money, or goods of the sales agent's principal if the net amount due the agent is determined only after an audit or verification of sales, accounts, funds, or stocks.

