7-24-202.   Operational requirements for title loans.
(1)  A title lender shall:
(a)  post in a conspicuous location on its premises that can be viewed by a
person seeking a title loan:
(i)  a complete schedule of any interest or fees charged for a title loan that
states the interest and fees:
(A)  as dollar amounts; and
(B)  as annual percentage rates; and
(ii)  a telephone number a person may call to make a complaint to the
department regarding a title loan;
(b)  enter into a written contract for the title loan containing:
(i)  the name of the person receiving the title loan;
(ii)  the transaction date;
(iii)  the amount of the title loan;
(iv)  a statement of the total amount of any interest or fees that may be
charged for the title loan, expressed as:
(A)  a dollar amount; and
(B)  an annual percentage rate; and
(v) (A)  the name and address of the designated agent required to be provided
the department under Subsection 7-24-201(2)(d)(vi); and
(B)  a statement that service of process may be made to the designated agent;
(c)  provide the person seeking the title loan a copy of the written contract
described in Subsection (1)(b);
(d)  prior to the execution of the title loan:
(i)  orally review with the person seeking the title loan the terms of the
title loan including:
(A)  the amount of any interest rate or fee, expressed as:
(I)  a dollar amount; and
(II)  an annual percentage rate; and
(B)  the date on which the full amount of the title loan is due; and
(ii)  provide the person seeking the title loan a copy of the disclosure form
adopted by the department under Section 7-24-203; and
(e)  comply with the following as in effect on the date the title loan is
extended:
(i)  Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. Sec. 1601 et seq., and its implementing
federal regulations;
(ii)  Equal Credit Opportunity Act, 15 U.S.C. Sec. 1691, and its implementing
federal regulations;
(iii)  Bank Secrecy Act, 12 U.S.C. Sec. 1829b, 12 U.S.C. Sec. 1951 through
1959, and 31 U.S.C. Sec. 5311 through 5332, and its implementing regulations;
and
(iv)  Title 70C, Utah Consumer Credit Code.
(2)  If a title lender extends a title loan through the Internet or other
electronic means, the title lender shall:
(a)  provide the information described in Subsection (1)(a) to the person
receiving the title loan:
(i)  in a conspicuous manner; and
(ii)  prior to the person entering into the title loan; and
(b)  in connection with the disclosure required under Subsection (2)(a),
provide a list of states where the title lender is registered or authorized to
offer title loans through the Internet or other electronic means.
(3)  A title lender may not:
(a)  rollover a title loan unless the person receiving the title loan requests
a rollover of the title loan;
(b)  extend more than one title loan on any vehicle at one time;
(c)  extend a title loan that exceeds the fair market value of the vehicle
securing the title loan; or
(d)  extend a title loan without regard to the ability of the person seeking
the title loan to repay the title loan, including the person's:
(i)  current and expected income;
(ii)  current obligations; and
(iii)  employment.
(4)  A title lender has met the requirements of Subsection (3)(d) if the
person seeking a title loan provides the title lender with a signed
acknowledgment that:
(a)  the person has provided the title lender with true and correct
information concerning the person's income, obligations, and employment; and
(b)  the person has the ability to repay the title loan.
