26-8b-602.   Automatic External Defibrillator Restricted Account.

(1) (a)  There is created a restricted account within the General Fund known as the Automatic External Defibrillator Restricted Account to provide AEDs to entities under Subsection (4).

(b)  The director of the bureau shall administer the account in accordance with rules made by the bureau in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.

(2)  The restricted account shall consist of money appropriated to the account by the Legislature.

(3)  The director of the bureau shall distribute funds deposited in the account to eligible entities, under Subsection (4), for the purpose of purchasing:

(a)  an AED;

(b)  an AED carrying case;

(c)  a wall-mounted AED cabinet; or

(d)  an AED sign.

(4)  Upon appropriation, the director of the bureau shall distribute funds deposited in the account, for the purpose of purchasing items under Subsection (3), to:

(a)  a municipal department of safety that routinely responds to incidents, or potential incidents, of sudden cardiac arrest;

(b)  a municipal or county law enforcement agency that routinely responds to incidents, or potential incidents, of sudden cardiac arrest;

(c)  a state law enforcement agency that routinely responds to incidents, or potential incidents, of sudden cardiac arrest;

(d)  a school that offers instruction to grades 7 through 12; or

(e)  a state institution of higher education.

(5)  The director of the bureau shall distribute funds under this section to a municipality only if the municipality provides a match in funding for the total cost of items under Subsection (3):

(a)  of 50% for the municipality, if the municipality is a city of first, second, or third class under Section 10-2-301; or

(b)  of 75% for the municipality, other than a municipality described in Subsection (5)(a).

(6)  The director of the bureau shall distribute funds under this section to a county only if the county provides a match in funding for the total cost of items under Subsection (3):

(a)  of 50% for the county, if the county is a county of first, second, or third class under Section 17-50-501; or

(b)  of 75% for the county, other than a county described in Subsection (6)(a).

(7)  In accordance with rules made by the bureau, an entity described in Subsection (4) may apply to the director of the bureau to receive a distribution of funds from the account by filing an application with the bureau on or before October 1 of each year.



Enacted by Chapter 99, 2013 General Session

