49-16-301.   Contributions -- Two divisions -- Election by employer to  pay
employee contributions -- Accounting for and vesting of worker contributions
-- Deductions.
(1)  In addition to the monies paid to this system under Subsection (6),
participating employers and firefighter service employees shall jointly pay
the certified contribution rates to the office to maintain this system on a
financially and actuarially sound basis.
(2)  For purposes of determining contribution rates, this system is divided
into two divisions according to Social Security coverage as follows:
(a)  members of this system with on-the-job Social Security coverage are in
Division A; and
(b)  members of this system without on-the-job Social Security coverage are in
Division B.
(3) (a)  A participating employer may elect to pay all or part of the required
member contributions, in addition to the required participating employer
contributions.
(b)  Any amount contributed by a participating employer under this section
shall vest to the member's benefit as though the member had made the
contribution.
(c)  The required member contributions shall be reduced by the amount that is
paid by the participating employer.
(4) (a)  All member contributions are credited by the office to the account of
the individual member.
(b)  This amount is held in trust for the payment of benefits to the member or
the member's beneficiaries.
(c)  All member contributions are vested and nonforfeitable.
(5) (a)  Each member is considered to consent to payroll deductions of member
contributions.
(b)  The payment of compensation less these payroll deductions is considered
to be full payment for services rendered by the member.
(6) (a)  Except as provided in Section 49-11-902, in addition to contribution
rates described under this section, there shall be paid to the Firefighters'
Retirement Trust Fund created under Section 49-16-104:
(i)  50% of the annual tax levied, assessed, and collected under Title 59,
Chapter 9, Taxation of Admitted Insurers, upon premiums for property
insurance, as defined under Section 31A-1-301, and as applied to fire and
allied lines insurance collected by insurance companies within the state; and
(ii)  10% of all money assessed and collected under Title 59, Chapter 9,
Taxation of Admitted Insurers, upon premiums for life insurance, as defined in
Section 31A-1-301, within the state.
(b)  Payments to the fund shall be made annually until the service liability
is liquidated, after which the tax revenue provided in this Subsection (6) for
the Firefighters' Retirement Trust Fund ceases.
