49-16-502.   Death of active member in Division B -- Payment of benefits.

(1)  If an active member of this system enrolled in Division B under Section 49-16-301 dies, benefits are payable as follows:

(a)  If the death is classified by the office as a line-of-duty death, benefits are payable as follows:

(i)  If the member has accrued less than 20 years of firefighter service credit, the spouse at the time of death shall receive a lump sum of $1,500 and an allowance equal to 37.5% of the member's final average monthly salary.

(ii)  If the member has accrued 20 or more years of firefighter service credit, the member shall be considered to have retired with an allowance calculated under Subsection 49-16-402 and the spouse at the time of death shall receive the death benefit payable to a spouse under Section 49-16-504.

(b)  If the death is not classified by the office as a line-of-duty death, the benefits are payable as follows:

(i)  If the member has accrued five or more years of firefighter service credit, the death is considered line-of-duty and the same benefits are payable as established under Subsection (1)(a).

(ii)  If the member has accrued less than five years of firefighter service credit, the spouse at the time of death shall receive a refund of the member's contributions, plus 50% of the member's most recent 12 months compensation.

(c)  If the member has accrued five or more years of firefighter service credit, the member's unmarried children until they reach age 21 or dependent unmarried children with a mental or physical disability, shall receive a monthly allowance of $75.

(2) (a)  In the event of the death of the member and spouse, the spouse's benefits are equally divided and paid to each unmarried child until the child reaches age 21.

(b)  The payments shall be made to the surviving parent or duly appointed guardian or as provided under Sections 49-11-609 and 49-11-610.

(3)  If a benefit is not distributed under the previous subsections, and the member has designated a beneficiary, the member's member contributions shall be paid to the beneficiary.

(4)  The combined monthly payments made to the beneficiaries of any member under this section may not exceed 75% of the member's final average monthly salary.

(5) (a)  A spouse who requests a benefit under this section shall apply in writing to the office.

(b)  The allowance shall begin on the first day of the month:

(i)  following the month in which the member died, if the application is received by the office within 90 days of the member's death; or

(ii)  following the month in which the application is received by the office, if the application is received by the office more than 90 days after the member's death.



Amended by Chapter 366, 2011 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 439, 2011 General Session

