63B-18-402.   Highway bonds -- Maximum amount -- Projects authorized.
(1) (a)  The total amount of bonds issued under this section may not exceed
$39,895,000.
(b)  When the Department of Transportation certifies to the commission the
amount of bond proceeds that it needs to provide funding for the highway
construction projects described in Subsection (2), the commission may issue
and sell general obligation bonds in an amount equal to the certified amount
plus costs of issuance.
(2) (a)  Proceeds from the bonds issued under this section shall be provided
to the Department of Transportation and funds under Subsection 72-2-121(4)(d)
shall be used by the Department of Transportation to pay for or to provide
funds to a municipality or county to pay for the costs of right-of-way
acquisition, construction, reconstruction, renovations, or improvements to
highways described in Subsection (2)(b).
(b)  Bond proceeds described under Subsection (2)(a) and funds under
Subsection 72-2-121(4)(d) shall be used to pay the amounts described in this
Subsection (2)(b) for the following highway projects in Salt Lake County:
(i)  $15,000,000 to pay for projects in the following priority order:
(A)  interchange improvements at 5400 South and Bangerter Highway;
(B)  interchange improvements at 4700 South and Bangerter Highway;
(C)  reversible lanes on 5400 South from Bangerter Highway going east,
terminating at either Redwood Road or Interstate 15; and
(D)  any remaining proceeds from the amount described in Subsection (2)(b)(i)
not required for the projects described in Subsections (2)(b)(i)(A), (B), and
(C), to pay for intersection and congestion mitigation projects identified by
the Department of Transportation in the east-west transportation route
improvement study;
(ii)  $20,000,000 to Salt Lake City for the viaduct on North Temple and 400
West; and
(iii)  $4,500,000 to Sandy City for the widening and improvement of 1300 East
between 9800 South to 11000 South.
(c)  Prior to a municipality or county receiving funds described in this
Subsection (2), the municipality or county shall sign and file a written
certification with the Department of Transportation certifying that it will
use the funds provided under this Subsection (2) solely for the projects
described in Subsection (2)(b).
(d)  The costs under this Subsection (2) may include the cost of acquiring
land, interests in land, easements and rights-of-way, improving sites, and
making all improvements necessary, incidental, or convenient to the
facilities, interest estimated to accrue on these bonds during the period to
be covered by construction of the projects plus a period of six months after
the end of the construction period, interest estimated to accrue on any bond
anticipation notes issued under the authority of this title, and all related
engineering, architectural, and legal fees.
(3)  The commission or the state treasurer may make any statement of intent
relating to a reimbursement that is necessary or desirable to comply with
federal tax law.
(4)  The Department of Transportation may enter into agreements related to the
project before the receipt of proceeds of bonds issued under this chapter.
