58-17b-309.   Exemptions from licensure.
(1)  For purposes of this section:
(a)  "Cosmetic drug":
(i)  means a prescription drug that is:
(A)  for the purpose of promoting attractiveness or altering the appearance of
an individual; and
(B)  listed as a cosmetic drug subject to the exemption under this section by
the division by administrative rule; and
(ii)  does not include a prescription drug that is:
(A)  a controlled substance;
(B)  compounded by the physician; or
(C)  prescribed or used for the patient for the purpose of diagnosing, curing,
mitigating, treating, or preventing a disease.
(b)  "Injectable weight loss drug":
(i)  means an injectable prescription drug:
(A)  prescribed to promote weight loss; and
(B)  listed as an injectable prescription drug subject to exemption under this
section by the division by administrative rule; and
(ii)  does not include a prescription drug that is a controlled substance.
(c)  "Physician" means an individual licensed under either Chapter 67, Utah
Medical Practice Act, or Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act.
(2)  In addition to the exemptions from licensure in Section 58-1-307, the
following individuals may engage in the acts or practices described in this
Subsection (2) without being licensed under this chapter:
(a)  a person selling or providing contact lenses in accordance with Section
58-16a-801;
(b)  an individual engaging in the practice of pharmacy technician under the
direct personal supervision of a pharmacist while making satisfactory progress
in an approved program as defined in division rule; and
(c)  a physician who prescribes and dispenses a cosmetic drug or an injectable
weight loss drug to the physician's patient in accordance with Subsection (4).
(3)  In accordance with Subsection 58-1-303(1)(a), an individual exempt under
Subsection (2)(b) must take all examinations as required by division rule
following completion of an approved curriculum of education, within the
required time frame.  This exemption expires immediately upon notification of
a failing score of an examination, and the individual may not continue working
as a pharmacy technician even under direct supervision.
(4)  A physician is exempt from licensing under the provisions of Subsection
(2)(c) if the physician:
(a) (i)  writes a prescription for a cosmetic drug or injectable weight loss
drug; and
(ii)  informs the patient:
(A)  that the prescription may be filled at a pharmacy or dispensed in the
physician's office;
(B)  of the directions for appropriate use of the drug;
(C)  of potential side-effects to the use of the drug; and
(D)  how to contact the physician if the patient has questions or concerns
regarding the drug;
(b)  dispenses a cosmetic drug or injectable weight loss drug only to the
physician's patients; and
(c)  follows labeling, record keeping, patient counseling, and storage
requirements established by administrative rule adopted by the division in
consultation with the boards listed in Subsection (5)(a).
(5) (a)  The division, in consultation with the board under this chapter, the
Physician Licensing Board, and the Osteopathic Physician Licensing Board,
shall adopt administrative rules pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act to designate:
(i)  the prescription drugs that may be dispensed as a cosmetic drug or weight
loss drug under this section; and
(ii)  the requirements under Subsection (4)(c).
(b)  When making a determination under Subsection (1)(a), the division and
boards listed in Subsection (5)(a), may consider any federal Food and Drug
Administration indications or approval associated with a drug when adopting a
rule to designate a prescription drug that may be dispensed under this
section.
(c)  The division may inspect the office of a physician who is dispensing
under the provisions of this section, in order to determine whether the
physician is in compliance with the provisions of this section.  If a
physician chooses to dispense under the provisions of this section, the
physician consents to the jurisdiction of the division to inspect the
physician's office and determine if the provisions of this section are being
met by the physician.
(d)  If a physician violates a provision of this section the physician may be
subject to discipline under:
(i)  this chapter; and
(ii) (A)  Chapter 67, Utah Medical Practice Act; or
(B)  Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act.
(6)  This section does not restrict or limit the scope of practice of an
optometrist or optometric physician licensed under Chapter 16a, Utah Optometry
Practice Act.
