63G-11-103.   Status verification system -- Registration and use --
Performance of services -- Unlawful practice.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Contract" means an agreement for the procurement of goods or services
that is awarded through a request for proposals process with a public employer
and includes a sole source contract.
(b)  "Contractor" means a subcontractor, contract employee, staffing agency,
or any contractor regardless of its tier.
(c)  "Public employer" means a department, agency, instrumentality, or
political subdivision of the state.
(d) (i)  "Status Verification System" means an electronic system operated by
the federal government, through which an authorized official of a state agency
or a political subdivision of the state may inquire by exercise of authority
delegated pursuant to 8 U.S.C., Sec. 1373, to verify the citizenship or
immigration status of an individual within the jurisdiction of the agency or
political subdivision for a purpose authorized under this section.
(ii)  "Status Verification System" includes:
(A)  the electronic verification of the work authorization program of the
Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigration Responsibility Act of 1996, 8
U.S.C., Sec. 1324a, known as the E-verify Program;
(B)  an equivalent federal program designated by the United States Department
of Homeland Security or other federal agency authorized to verify the work
eligibility status of a newly hired employee pursuant to the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986;
(C)  the Social Security Number Verification Service or similar online
verification process implemented by the United States Social Security
Administration; or
(D)  an independent third-party system with an equal or higher degree of
reliability as the programs, systems, or processes described in Subsection
(1)(d)(ii)(A), (B), or (C).
(e)  "Unauthorized alien" means an alien as defined in 8 U.S.C., Sec.
1324a(h)(3).
(2) (a)  Each public employer shall register with and use a Status
Verification System to verify the federal employment authorization status of a
new employee.
(b)  This section shall be enforced without regard to race, religion, gender,
ethnicity, or national origin.
(3) (a)  Beginning July 1, 2009:
(i)  a public employer may not enter into a contract for the physical
performance of services within the state with a contractor unless the
contractor registers and participates in the Status Verification System to
verify the work eligibility status of the contractor's new employees that are
employed in the state; and
(ii)  a contractor shall register and participate in the Status Verification
System in order to enter into a contract with a public employer.
(b) (i)  For purposes of compliance with Subsection (3)(a), a contractor is
individually responsible for verifying the employment status of only new
employees who work under the contractor's supervision or direction and not
those who work for another contractor or subcontractor, except as otherwise
provided in Subsection (3)(b)(ii).
(ii)  Each contractor or subcontractor who works under or for another
contractor shall certify to the main contractor by affidavit that the
contractor or subcontractor has verified through the Status Verification
System the employment status of each new employee of the respective contractor
or subcontractor.
(c)  Subsection (3)(a) does not apply to a contract:
(i)  entered into by the entities referred to in Subsection (3)(a) prior to
July 1, 2009, even though the contract may involve the physical performance of
services within the state on or after July 1, 2009; or
(ii)  that involves underwriting, remarketing, broker-dealer activities,
securities placement, investment advisory, financial advisory, or other
financial or investment banking services.
(4) (a)  It is unlawful for an employing entity in the state to discharge an
employee working in Utah who is a United States citizen or permanent resident
alien and replace the employee with, or have the employee's duties assumed by,
an employee who:
(i)  the employing entity knows, or reasonably should have known, is an
unauthorized alien hired on or after July 1, 2009; and
(ii)  is working in the state in a job category:
(A)  that requires equal skill, effort, and responsibility; and
(B)  which is performed under similar working conditions, as defined in 29
U.S.C., Sec. 206 (d)(1), as the job category held by the discharged employee.
(b)  An employing entity, which on the date of a discharge in question
referred to in Subsection (4)(a) is enrolled in and using the Status
Verification System to verify the employment eligibility of its employees in
Utah who are hired on or after July 1, 2009, is exempt from liability,
investigation, or lawsuit arising from an action under this section.
(c)  A cause of action for a violation of this Subsection (4) arises
exclusively from the provisions of this Subsection (4).
