42-2-5.   Certificate of assumed and of true name -- Contents -- Execution
-- Filing -- Notice.
(1)  For purposes of this section, "filed" means the Division of Corporations
and Commercial Code has:
(a)  received and approved, as to form, a document submitted under this
chapter; and
(b)  marked on the face of the document a stamp or seal indicating:
(i)  the time of day and date of approval;
(ii)  the name of the division; and
(iii)  the division director's signature and division seal, or facsimiles of
the signature or seal.
(2)  A person who carries on, conducts, or transacts business in this state
under an assumed name, whether that business is carried on, conducted, or
transacted as an individual, association, partnership, corporation, or
otherwise, shall file with the Division of Corporations and Commercial Code a
certificate setting forth:
(a)  the name under which the business is, or is to be carried on, conducted,
or transacted;
(b)  the full true name, or names, of the person owning, and the person
carrying on, conducting, or transacting the business; and
(c)  the location of the principal place of business, and the street address
of the person.
(3)  A certificate filed under this section shall be:
(a)  executed by the person owning, and the person carrying on, conducting, or
transacting the business;
(b)  filed not later than 30 days after the time of commencing to carry on,
conduct, or transact the business; and
(c)  submitted in a machine printed format.
(4)  A certificate filed with the Division of Corporations and Commercial Code
under this chapter shall include the following notice in a conspicuous place
on the face thereof:
NOTICE - THE FILING OF THIS APPLICATION AND ITS APPROVAL BY THE DIVISION OF
CORPORATIONS AND COMMERCIAL CODE DOES NOT AUTHORIZE THE USE IN THE STATE OF
UTAH OF AN ASSUMED NAME IN VIOLATION OF THE RIGHTS OF ANOTHER UNDER FEDERAL,
STATE, OR COMMON LAW (SEE UTAH CODE ANN. SECTIONS 42-2-5 ET SEQ.).
(5) (a)  A certificate filed under this section shall include a portion that
allows the person filing the form to voluntarily disclose the gender and race
of one or more owners of the entity for which the filing is made.
(b)  Race shall be indicated under Subsection (5)(a) by selecting from the
categories of race listed in 15 U.S.C. Sec. 631(f).
(c)  A person is not required to provide information under Subsection (5)(a)
concerning the gender or race of one or more owners of the entity for which
the filing is made.
(d) (i)  The Division of Corporations and Commercial Code shall compile
information concerning the gender or race included on certificates filed with
the Division of Corporations and Commercial Code.
(ii)  Information compiled by the Division of Corporations and Commercial Code
under Subsection (5)(d)(i) may be compiled in a manner determined by the
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code by rules made pursuant to Title
63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
