15-7-2.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Authorized officer" means any individual required or permitted by any
law or by the issuing public entity to execute on behalf of the public entity,
a certificated registered public obligation or a writing relating to an
uncertificated registered public obligation.
(2)  "Certificated registered public obligation" means a registered public
obligation which is represented by an instrument.
(3)  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
(4)  "Facsimile seal" means the reproduction by engraving, imprinting,
stamping, or other means of the seal of the issuer, official, or official
body.
(5)  "Facsimile signature" means the reproduction by engraving, imprinting,
stamping, or other means of a manual signature.
(6)  "Financial intermediary" means a bank, broker, clearing corporation or
other person, or the nominee of any of them, which in the ordinary course of
its business maintains registered public obligation accounts for its
customers.
(7)  "Issuer" means a public entity which issues an obligation.
(8)  "Obligation" means an agreement by a public entity to pay principal and
any interest on the obligation, whether in the form of a contract to repay
borrowed money, a lease, an installment purchase agreement, or otherwise, and
includes a share, participation, or other interest in any such agreement.
(9)  "Official actions" means the actions by statute, order, ordinance,
resolution, contract, or other authorized means by which the issuer provides
for issuance of a registered public obligation.
(10)  "Official" or "official body" means the person or group of persons that
is empowered to provide for the original issuance of an obligation of the
issuer, by defining the obligation and its terms, conditions, and other
incidents, or to perform duties with respect to a registered public obligation
and any successor of such person or group of persons.
(11)  "Public entity" means any entity, department, or agency which is
empowered under the laws of one or more states, territories, possessions of
the United States or the District of Columbia, including this state, to issue
obligations any interest with respect to which may, under any provision of
law, be provided an exemption from the income tax referred to in the Code. The
term "public entity" includes, without limitation, this state, an entity
deriving powers from and acting pursuant to a state constitution or
legislative act, a county, city, town, a municipal corporation, a quasi-
municipal corporation, a state university or college, a school district, a
special service district, a local district, a separate legal or administrative
entity created under the Interlocal Cooperation Act or other joint agreement
entity, a community development and renewal agency, any other political
subdivision, a public authority or public agency, a public trust, a nonprofit
corporation, or other organizations.
(12)  "Registered public obligation" means an obligation issued by a public
entity which is issued pursuant to a system of registration.
(13)  "System of registration" and its variants means a plan that provides:
(a)  with respect to a certificated registered public obligation, that:
(i)  the certificated registered public obligation specifies a person entitled
to the registered public obligation and the rights it represents; and
(ii)  transfer of the certificated registered public obligation and the rights
it represents may be registered upon books maintained for that purpose by or
on behalf of the issuer; and
(b)  with respect to an uncertificated registered public obligation, that:
(i)  books maintained by or on behalf of the issuer for the purpose of
registration of the transfer of a registered public obligation specify a
person entitled to the registered public obligation and the rights evidenced
by it; and
(ii)  transfer of the uncertificated registered public obligation and the
rights evidenced by it be registered upon such books.
(14)  "Uncertificated registered public obligation" means a registered public
obligation which is not represented by an instrument.
