11-14-203.   Time for election -- Equipment -- Election officials -- Combining precincts.

(1) (a)  The local political subdivision shall ensure that bond elections are conducted and administered according to the procedures set forth in this chapter and the sections of the Election Code specifically referenced by this chapter.

(b)  When a local political subdivision complies with those procedures, there is a presumption that the bond election was properly administered.

(2) (a)  A bond election may be held, and the proposition for the issuance of bonds may be submitted, on the same date as any general or municipal election held in the local political subdivision calling the bond election, or at a special election called for the purpose on a date authorized by Section 20A-1-204.

(b)  A bond election may not be held, nor a proposition for issuance of bonds be submitted, at the Western States Presidential Primary election established in Title 20A, Chapter 9, Part 8, Western States Presidential Primary.

(3) (a)  The bond election shall be conducted and administered by the election officer designated in Sections 20A-1-102 and 20A-5-400.5.

(b) (i)  The duties of the election officer shall be governed by Title 20A, Chapter 5, Part 4, Election Officer's Duties.

(ii)  The publishing requirement under Subsection 20A-5-405(1)(j)(iii) does not apply when notice of a bond election has been provided according to the requirements of Section 11-14-202.

(c)  The hours during which the polls are to be open shall be consistent with Section 20A-1-302.

(d)  The appointment and duties of election judges shall be governed by Title 20A, Chapter 5, Part 6, Election Judges.

(e)  General voting procedures shall be conducted according to the requirements of Title 20A, Chapter 3, Voting.

(f)  The designation of election crimes and offenses, and the requirements for the prosecution and adjudication of those crimes and offenses are set forth in Title 20A, Election Code.

(4)  When a bond election is being held on a day when no other election is being held in the local political subdivision calling the bond election, voting precincts may be combined for purposes of bond elections so long as no voter is required to vote outside the county in which the voter resides.

(5)  When a bond election is being held on the same day as any other election held in a local political subdivision calling the bond election, or in some part of that local political subdivision, the polling places and election officials serving for the other election may also serve as the polling places and election officials for the bond election, so long as no voter is required to vote outside the county in which the voter resides.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 105, 2005 General Session

