11-14-206.    Ballots -- Submission of ballot language -- Form and contents.
(1)  At least 75 days before the election, the governing body shall prepare
and submit to the election officer:
(a)  a ballot title for the bond proposition that includes the name of the
local political subdivision issuing the bonds and the word "bond"; and
(b)  a ballot proposition that meets the requirements of Subsection (2).
(2) (a)  The ballot proposition shall include:
(i)   the maximum principal amount of the bonds;
(ii)  the maximum number of years from the issuance of the bonds to final
maturity;
(iii)  the general purpose for which the bonds are to be issued; and
(iv)  if issuance of the bonds will require the increase of the property tax
imposed upon the average value of a residence by an amount that is greater
than or equal to $15 per year, the following information in substantially the
following form:
"PROPERTY TAX COST OF BONDS:
If the bonds are issued as planned, an annual property tax to pay debt service
on the bonds will be required over a period of ____ years in the estimated
amount of $____ on a (insert the average value of a residence in the taxing
entity rounded to the nearest thousand dollars) residence and in the estimated
amount of $____ on a business property having the same value.
[If applicable]  If there are other outstanding bonds, an otherwise scheduled
tax decrease may not occur if these bonds are issued.
The foregoing information is only an estimate and is not a limit on the amount
of taxes that the governing body may be required to levy in order to pay debt
service on the bonds.  The governing body is obligated to levy taxes to the
extent provided by law in order to pay the bonds."
(b)  The purpose of the bonds may be stated in general terms and need not
specify the particular projects for which the bonds are to be issued or the
specific amount of bond proceeds to be expended for each project.
(c)  If the bonds are to be payable in part from tax proceeds and in part from
the operating revenues of the local political subdivision, or from any
combination of tax proceeds and operating revenues, the bond proposition may
indicate those payment sources, but need not specify how the bonds are to be
divided between those sources of payment.
(d) (i)  The bond proposition shall be followed by the words, "For the
issuance of bonds" and "Against the issuance of bonds," with appropriate boxes
in which the voter may indicate his choice.
(ii)  Nothing in Subsection (2)(d)(i) prohibits the addition of descriptive
information about the bonds.
(3)  If a bond proposition is submitted to a vote on the same day as any other
election held in the local political subdivision calling the bond election,
the bond proposition may be combined with the candidate ballot in a manner
consistent with Section 20A-6-301, 20A-6-303, or 20A-6-402.
(4)  The ballot form shall comply with the requirements of Title 20A, Chapter
6, Ballot Form.
