11-14-311.   Bond anticipation notes.
(1) (a)  If the governing body considers it advisable and in the interests of
the local political subdivision to anticipate the issuance of bonds to be
issued under this chapter, the governing body may, pursuant to appropriate
resolution, issue bond anticipation notes.
(b)  Each resolution authorizing the issuance of bond anticipation notes
shall:
(i)  describe the bonds in anticipation of which the notes are to be issued;
(ii)  specify the principal amount of the notes and the maturity  dates of the
notes; and
(iii)  specify either the rates of interest, if any, on the notes or the
method by which interest on the notes may be determined while the notes are
outstanding.
(c)  If the resolution specifies a method by which the interest rates on the
notes may be determined, the resolution may specify the maximum rate of
interest which the notes may bear.
(2)  Bond anticipation notes shall be issued and sold in a manner and at a
price, either at, below, or above face value, as the governing body determines
by resolution.  Interest on bond anticipation notes may be made payable
semiannually, annually, or at maturity.  Bond anticipation notes may be made
redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the governing body in the manner
and upon the terms fixed by the resolution authorizing their issuance.  Bond
anticipation notes shall be executed and shall be in a form and have details
and terms as provided in the authorizing resolution.
(3)  Contemporaneously with the issuance of the bonds in anticipation of which
bond anticipation notes are issued, provision shall be made for the retirement
of any outstanding bond anticipation notes.
(4)  Whenever the bonds in anticipation of which notes are issued are to be
payable from ad valorem taxes and constitute full general obligations of the
local political subdivision, the bond anticipation notes and the interest on
them shall be secured by a pledge of the full faith and credit of the local
political subdivision in the manner provided in Section 11-14-310 and shall
also be made payable from funds derived from the sale of the bonds in
anticipation of which the notes are issued.  Whenever the bonds in
anticipation of which the notes are to be issued are to be payable solely from
revenues derived from the operation of revenue-producing facilities, these
bond anticipation notes and the interest on them shall be secured by a pledge
of the income and revenues derived by the local political subdivision from the
revenue-producing facilities and shall also be made payable from funds derived
from the sale of the bonds in anticipation of which the notes are issued.
(5)  Bond anticipation notes issued under this section may be refunded by the
issuance of other bond anticipation notes issued under this section.
(6)  Sections 11-14-304, 11-14-305, 11-14-315, 11-14-316, and 11-14-401 apply
to all bond anticipation notes issued under this section.
(7)  Bonds are not considered to have been issued more than ten years after
the date of the election authorizing the issuance of them, under Section
11-14-301, if the issuance of these bonds has been anticipated under this
section by bond anticipation notes issued prior to the expiration of this ten-
year period.
