31A-6a-104.   Required disclosures.

(1)  A service contract reimbursement insurance policy insuring a service contract that is issued, sold, or offered for sale in this state must conspicuously state that, upon failure of the service contract provider to perform under the contract, the issuer of the policy shall:

(a)  pay on behalf of the service contract provider any sums the service contract provider is legally obligated to pay according to the service contract provider's contractual obligations under the service contract issued or sold by the service contract provider; or

(b)  provide the service which the service contract provider is legally obligated to perform, according to the service contract provider's contractual obligations under the service contract issued or sold by the service contract provider.

(2) (a)  A service contract may not be issued, sold, or offered for sale in this state unless the service contract contains the following statements in substantially the following form:

(i)  "Obligations of the provider under this service contract are guaranteed under a service contract reimbursement insurance policy. Should the provider fail to pay or provide service on any claim within 60 days after proof of loss has been filed, the contract holder is entitled to make a claim directly against the Insurance Company."; and

(ii)  "This service contract or warranty is subject to limited regulation by the Utah Insurance Department.  To file a complaint, contact the Utah Insurance Department."

(b)  A service contract or reimbursement insurance policy may not be issued, sold, or offered for sale in this state unless the contract contains a statement in substantially the following form, "Coverage afforded under this contract is not guaranteed by the Property and Casualty Guaranty Association."

(3)  A service contract shall:

(a)  conspicuously state the name, address, and a toll free claims service telephone number of the reimbursement insurer;

(b)  identify the service contract provider, the seller, and the service contract holder;

(c)  conspicuously state the total purchase price and the terms under which the service contract is to be paid;

(d)  conspicuously state the existence of any deductible amount;

(e)  specify the merchandise, service to be provided, and any limitation, exception, or exclusion;

(f)  state a term, restriction, or condition governing the transferability of the service contract; and

(g)  state a term, restriction, or condition that governs cancellation of the service contract as provided in Sections 31A-21-303 through 31A-21-305 by either the contract holder or service contract provider.

(4)  If prior approval of repair work is required, a service contract must conspicuously state the procedure for obtaining prior approval and for making a claim, including:

(a)  a toll free telephone number for claim service; and

(b)  a procedure for obtaining reimbursement for emergency repairs performed outside of normal business hours.

(5)  A preexisting condition clause in a service contract must specifically state which preexisting condition is excluded from coverage.

(6) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (6)(c), a service contract must state the conditions upon which the use of a nonmanufacturers' part is allowed. 

(b)  A condition described in Subsection (6)(a) must comply with applicable state and federal laws.

(c)  This Subsection (6) does not apply to a home warranty contract.

