63F-1-102.   Definitions.

As used in this title:

(1)  "Board" means the Technology Advisory Board created in Section 63F-1-202.

(2)  "Chief information officer" means the chief information officer appointed under Section 63F-1-201.

(3)  "Commission" means the Utah Technology Commission created in Section 63D-1a-201.

(4)  "Computer center" means the location at which a central data processing platform is managed to serve multiple executive branch agencies.

(5)  "Data center" means a centralized repository for the storage, management, and dissemination of data.

(6)  "Department" means the Department of Technology Services.

(7) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(b), "executive branch agency" means an agency or administrative subunit of state government.

(b)  "Executive branch agency" does not include:

(i)  the legislative branch;

(ii)  the judicial branch;

(iii)  the State Board of Education;

(iv)  the Board of Regents;

(v)  institutions of higher education;

(vi)  independent entities as defined in Section 63E-1-102; and

(vii)  elective constitutional offices of the executive department which includes:

(A)  the state auditor;

(B)  the state treasurer; and

(C)  the attorney general.

(8)  "Executive branch strategic plan" means the executive branch strategic plan created under Section 63F-1-203.

(9)  "Information technology" means all computerized and auxiliary automated information handling, including:

(a)  systems design and analysis;

(b)  acquisition, storage, and conversion of data;

(c)  computer programming;

(d)  information storage and retrieval;

(e)  voice, radio, video, and data communications;

(f)  requisite systems controls;

(g)  simulation; and

(h)  all related interactions between people and machines.

(10)  "State information architecture" means a logically consistent set of principles, policies, and standards that guide the engineering of state government's information technology and infrastructure in a way that ensures alignment with state government's business and service needs.

(11)  "Telecommunications" means the transmission or reception of signs, signals, writing, images, sounds, messages, data, or other information of any nature by wire, radio, light waves, or other electromagnetic means.

