63F-1-106.   Executive director -- Jurisdiction over divisions and office
directors -- Authority.
(1)  The executive director of the department has administrative jurisdiction
over each division and office in the department and the division and office
directors.  The executive director may make changes in personnel and service
functions in the divisions under the director's administrative jurisdiction,
and authorize designees to perform appropriate responsibilities, to effectuate
greater efficiency and economy in the operations of the department as
permitted by this section.
(2)  The executive director may establish offices and bureaus to perform
functions such as budgeting, planning, and personnel administration to
facilitate management of the department.
(3)  The executive director may hire employees in the department, divisions,
and offices as permitted by department resources.  Except as provided in
Subsection (4), any employees of the department are exempt from career service
or classified service status as provided in Section 67-19-15.
(4) (a)  An employee of an executive branch agency who was a career service
employee as of July 1, 2005 who is transferred to the Department of Technology
Services continues in the employee's career service status during the
employee's service to the Department of Technology Services if the duties of
the position in the new department are substantially similar to those in the
employee's previous position.
(b)  A career service employee transferred to the new department under the
provisions of Subsection (4)(a), whose duties or responsibilities subsequently
change, may not be converted to exempt status without the review process
required by Subsection 67-19-15(3).
(c)  The executive director shall work with executive branch agency directors,
during the period of transition to the new department, in good faith, to:
(i)  preserve relevant career service positions;
(ii)  retain qualified employees in non-relevant positions through transfers
to other positions in state government, with retraining as necessary; and
(iii)  promote greater economy and efficiencies for the department.
(d)  The Department of Technology Services together with the Department of
Human Resource Management may develop financial and other incentives to
encourage a career service employee who transfers to the department under the
provisions of Subsection (4)(a) to voluntarily convert to an exempt position
under Section 67-19-15.
(e)  If a career service employee transfers to the department under the
provisions of Subsection (4)(a) and terminates his employment with the
department for any reason, the employment position shall be exempt from career
service status under the provisions of Subsection (3).
