63F-1-201.   Chief information officer -- Appointment -- Powers -- Reporting.

(1)  The director of the department shall serve as the state's chief information officer.

(2)  The chief information officer shall:

(a)  advise the governor on information technology policy; and

(b)  perform those duties given the chief information officer by statute.

(3) (a)  The chief information officer shall report annually to:

(i)  the governor; and

(ii)  the Public Utilities and Technology Interim Committee.

(b)  The report required under Subsection (3)(a) shall:

(i)  summarize the state's current and projected use of information technology;

(ii)  summarize the executive branch strategic plan including a description of major changes in the executive branch strategic plan; and

(iii)  provide a brief description of each state agency's information technology plan.

(4) (a)  In accordance with this section, the chief information officer shall prepare an interbranch information technology coordination plan that provides for the coordination where possible of the development, acquisition, and maintenance of information technology and information systems of:

(i)  the executive branch;

(ii)  the judicial branch;

(iii)  the legislative branch;

(iv)  the Board of Regents; and

(v)  the State Board of Education.

(b)  In the development of the interbranch coordination plan, the chief information officer shall consult with the entities described in Subsection (4)(a).

(c)  The interbranch coordination plan:

(i)  is an advisory document; and

(ii)  does not bind any entity described in Subsection (4)(a).

(d) (i)  The chief information officer shall submit the interbranch coordination plan to the Public Utilities and Technology Interim Committee for comment.

(ii)  The chief information officer may modify the interbranch coordination plan:

(A)  at the request of the Public Utilities and Technology Interim Committee; or

(B)  to improve the coordination between the entities described in Subsection (4)(a).

(iii)  Any amendment to the interbranch coordination plan is subject to this Subsection (4) in the same manner as the interbranch coordination plan is subject to this Subsection (4).

(5)  In a manner consistent with the interbranch coordination plan created in accordance with Subsection (4), the chief information officer shall maintain liaisons with:

(a)  the judicial branch;

(b)  the legislative branch;

(c)  the Board of Regents;

(d)  the State Board of Education;

(e)  local government;

(f)  the federal government;

(g)  business and industry; and

(h)  those members of the public who use information technology or systems of the state.

