63F-1-202.   Technology Advisory Board -- Membership -- Duties.
(1)  There is created the Technology Advisory Board to the chief information
officer.  The board shall have seven members as follows:
(a)  three members appointed by the governor who are individuals actively
involved in business planning for state agencies;
(b)  one member appointed by the governor who is actively involved in business
planning for higher education or public education;
(c)  one member appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives and
president of the Senate from the Legislative Automation Committee of the
Legislature to represent the legislative branch;
(d)  one member appointed by the Judicial Council to represent the judicial
branch; and
(e)  one member appointed by the governor who represents private sector
business needs in the state, but who is not an information technology vendor
for the state.
(2) (a)  The members of the advisory board shall elect a chair from the board
by majority vote.
(b)  The department shall provide staff to the board.
(c) (i)  A majority of the members of the board constitutes a quorum.
(ii)  Action by a majority of a quorum of the board constitutes an action of
the board.
(3)  The board shall meet as necessary to advise the chief information officer
and assist the chief information officer and executive branch agencies in
coming to consensus on:
(a)  the development and implementation of the state's information technology
strategic plan;
(b)  critical information technology initiatives for the state;
(c)  the development of standards for state information architecture;
(d)  identification of the business and technical needs of state agencies;
(e)  the department's performance measures for service agreements with
executive branch agencies and subscribers of services; and
(f)  the efficient and effective operation of the department.
(4)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
