63F-1-508.   Committee to award grants to counties for inventory and mapping
of R.S.  2477 rights-of-way -- Use of grants -- Request for proposals.
(1)  There is created within the center a committee to award grants to
counties to inventory and map R.S. 2477 rights-of-way, associated structures,
and other features as provided by Subsection (5).
(2) (a)  The committee shall consist of:
(i)  the center manager;
(ii)  a representative of the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget;
(iii)  a representative of Utah State University Extension;
(iv)  a representative of the Utah Association of Counties; and
(v)  three county commissioners.
(b)  The committee members specified in Subsections (2)(a)(ii) through
(2)(a)(iv) shall be selected by the organizations they represent.
(c)  The committee members specified in Subsection (2)(a)(v) shall be:
(i)  selected by the Utah Association of Counties;
(ii)  from rural counties; and
(iii)  from different regions of the state.
(3) (a)  The committee shall select a chair from its membership.
(b)  The committee shall meet upon the call of the chair or a majority of the
committee members.
(c)  Four members shall constitute a quorum.
(4) (a)  Committee members who are state government employees shall receive no
additional compensation for their work on the committee.
(b)  Committee members who are not state government employees shall receive no
compensation or expenses from the state for their work on the committee.
(5) (a)  The committee shall award grants to counties to:
(i)  inventory and map R.S. 2477 rights-of-way using Global Positioning System
(GPS) technology; and
(ii)  photograph:
(A)  roads and other evidence of construction of R.S. 2477 rights-of-way;
(B)  structures or natural features that may be indicative of the purpose for
which an R.S.  2477 right-of-way was created, such as mines, agricultural
facilities, recreational facilities, or scenic overlooks; and
(C)  evidence of valid and existing rights on federal lands, such as mines and
agricultural facilities.
(b) (i)  The committee may allow counties, while they are conducting the
activities described in Subsection (5)(a), to use grant monies to inventory,
map, or photograph other natural or cultural resources.
(ii)  Activities funded under Subsection (5)(b)(i) must be integrated with
existing programs underway by state agencies, counties, or institutions of
higher education.
(c)  Maps and other data acquired through the grants shall become a part of
the State Geographic Information Database.
(d)  Counties shall provide an opportunity to interested parties to submit
information relative to the mapping and photographing of R.S. 2477 rights-of-
way and other structures as provided in Subsections (5)(a) and (5)(b).
(6) (a)  The committee shall develop a request for proposals process and issue
a request for proposals.
(b)  The request for proposals shall require each grant applicant to submit an
implementation plan and identify any monetary or in-kind contributions from
the county.
(c)  In awarding grants, the committee shall give priority to proposals to
inventory, map, and photograph R.S. 2477 rights-of-way and other structures as
specified in Subsection (5)(a) which are located on federal lands that:
(i)  a federal land management agency proposes for special management, such as
lands to be managed as an area of critical environmental concern or primitive
area; or
(ii)  are proposed to receive a special designation by Congress, such as lands
to be designated as wilderness or a national conservation area.
(7)  Each county that receives a grant under the provision of this section
shall provide a copy of all data regarding inventory and mapping to the AGRC
for inclusion in the state database.
