63F-1-509.   Statewide Global Positioning Reference Network created -- Advisory committee.

(1) (a)  There is created the Statewide Global Positioning Reference Network to improve the quality of geographic information system data and the productivity, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness of government services.

(b)  The network shall provide a system of permanently mounted, fully networked, global positioning system base stations that will provide real time radio navigation and establish a standard statewide coordinate reference system.

(c)  The center shall administer the network.

(2) (a)  There is created the Global Positioning Systems Advisory Committee to advise the center on implementing and maintaining the network.

(b)  The committee membership shall consist of:

(i)  the center manager or the manager's designee;

(ii)  a representative from the Department of Transportation created by Section 72-1-201 designated by the executive director appointed under Section 72-1-202;

(iii)  the chief information officer or the chief information officer's designee;

(iv)  a representative from the Utah Association of County Surveyors; and

(v)  a representative from the Utah Council of Land Surveyors.

(c)  The representative from the center shall be the chair of the committee.

(d)  The committee shall meet upon the call of the chair or a majority of the committee members.

(e)  The committee chair shall give reasonable notice to each member prior to any meeting.

(f)  Three members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

(g)  The center shall provide staff support to the committee.

(h)  Committee members who are state government employees shall receive no additional compensation for their work on the committee.

(i)  Committee members who are not state government employees shall receive no compensation or expenses for their work on the committee.

(j)  The committee shall recommend rules to the chief information officer for adoption under Subsection (3).

(3) (a)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the chief information officer shall make, in consultation with the committee, rules providing for operating policies and procedures for the network.

(b)  The rules shall consider:

(i)  network development that serves a public purpose;

(ii)  increased productivity and efficiency for state agencies; and

(iii)  costs and longevity of the network.



Amended by Chapter 382, 2008 General Session

