63F-1-701.   Utah Public Notice Website -- Establishment and administration.

(1)  As used in this part:

(a)  "Division" means the Division of Archives and Records Service of the Department of Administrative Services.

(b)  "Public body" has the same meaning as provided under Section 52-4-103.

(c)  "Website" means the Utah Public Notice Website created under this section.

(2)  There is created the Utah Public Notice Website to be administered by the Division of Archives and Records Service.

(3)  The website shall consist of an Internet website provided to assist the public to find posted public notices of a public body of the state and its political subdivisions as required under Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act, and under other state statutes or state agency rules.

(4)  The division, with the technical assistance of the Department of Technology Services, shall create the website which shall:

(a)  allow a public body, or other certified entity, to easily post any public notice information that the public body or other entity is required to post under statute;

(b)  allow the public to search the public notices by:

(i)  public body name;

(ii)  date of posting of the notice;

(iii)  date of any meeting or deadline included as part of the public notice; and

(iv)  any other criteria approved by the division;

(c)  allow the public to search and view past, archived public notices;

(d)  allow a person to subscribe to receive updates and notices associated with a public body or a particular type of notice;

(e)  be easily accessible by the public from the State of Utah home page;

(f)  have a unique and simplified website address;

(g)  be directly accessible via a link from the main page of the official state website; and

(h)  include other links, features, or functionality that will assist the public in obtaining and reviewing information in relation to public notices posted on the website, as may be approved by the division.

(5)  The division shall be responsible for:

(a)  establishing and maintaining the website, including the provision of equipment, resources, and personnel as is necessary;

(b)  providing a mechanism for public bodies or other certified entities to have access to the website for the purpose of posting and modifying notices; and

(c)  maintaining an archive of all notices posted to the website.

(6)  The timing for posting and the content of the public notices posted to the website shall be the responsibility of the public body or other entity posting the notice.

(7)  Until December 31, 2012 and notwithstanding any other provision of statute requiring the publishing or posting of a notice to the website, a public body of a municipality under Title 10, Utah Municipal Code, a local district under Title 17B, Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Local Districts, or a special service district under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act, with an annual budget of less than $1,000,000 is encouraged but not required to publish or post a notice to the website.

