63F-1-801.   Statewide Communications Interoperability Committee --
Membership -- Chair -- Quorum.
(1)  As used in this part:
(a)  "Committee" means the Statewide Communications Interoperability
Committee.
(b)  "Interoperability spectrum" means the radio signal transmission spectrum
to communicate between agencies as assigned by the Federal Communications
Commission.
(2)  There is created within the department the Statewide Communications
Interoperability Committee.
(3) (a)  The governor shall appoint the following 25 committee members:
(i)  except as provided in Subsection (4), five representatives from counties
of the first or second class who are in:
(A)  law enforcement or fire service; and
(B)  a leadership position with radio communication experience;
(ii)  one representative each of six associations of government from rural
Utah that represent counties not represented in Subsection (3)(a)(i);
(iii)  one representative of the Utah Communications Agency Network
established under Title 63C, Chapter 7, Utah Communications Agency Network
Act;
(iv)  one representative of the Native American tribes;
(v)  one representative of the Utah National Guard;
(vi)  one representative of an association that represents chiefs of police;
(vii)  one representative of an association that represents sheriffs;
(viii)  one representative of an association that represents fire chiefs; and
(ix)  one representative of an association that represents urban security
efforts.
(b)  The following shall also be committee members:
(i)  the chief information officer or the chief information officer's
designee;
(ii)  the commissioner of the Department of Public Safety or the
commissioner's designee;
(iii)  the executive director of the Department of Transportation or the
executive director's designee;
(iv)  the executive director of the Department of Corrections or the executive
director's designee;
(v)  the executive director of the Department of Natural Resources or the
executive director's designee;
(vi)  the director of the Department of Health or the director's designee; and
(vii)  the executive director of the Department of Technology Services or the
executive director's designee.
(4)  Subject to Subsection (3)(a)(i), if a member of law enforcement cannot be
seated, then a representative who has leadership experience in radio
communications and public safety shall be seated.
(5) (a)  The term of office of each member described in Subsection (3)(a) is
four years.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (5)(a), the committee
chair with the approval of the governor shall, at the time of appointment or
reappointment, adjust the length of terms to stagger the terms of committee
members so that approximately 1/2 of the committee members are appointed every
two years.
(c)  A mid-term vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same
manner as an appointment under Subsection (3)(a).
(6) (a)  The chief information officer shall serve as the committee chair.
(b) (i)  The committee members shall elect a vice-chair from their number; and
(ii)  the vice-chair shall rotate among representatives described in
Subsection (3)(a) every year.
(c)  The committee shall establish bylaws for the organization and operation
of the committee.
(7) (a)  A majority of the committee constitutes a quorum for voting purposes.
(b)  All actions shall be by majority vote of the quorum in attendance.
(8)  The committee:
(a)  may meet as often as necessary to perform its duties; and
(b)  shall meet at least monthly.
(9)  The department shall provide staff services to the committee.
(10) (a)  No member may receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service on the committee.
(b)  A committee member is not required to give a bond for the performance of
official duties.
(11) (a)  The committee may create an executive committee from its number to:
(i)  plan agendas;
(ii)  call committee meetings; and
(iii)  meet as often as necessary, at the call of the chair.
(b)  The committee may establish subcommittees and working groups to address
wireless technology coordination and communication issues among agencies
providing vital services to citizens.
(12)  The committee does not have the authority to require expenditure of
public funds.
