51-5-4.   Funds established -- Titles of funds -- Fund functions.
(1) (a) (i)  The funds enumerated in this section are established as major
fund types.
(ii)  All resources and financial transactions of Utah state government shall
be accounted for within one of these major fund types.
(b) (i)  All funds or subfunds shall be consolidated into one of the state's
major fund types.
(ii)  Where a specific statute requires that a restricted fund or account be
established, that fund or account shall be accounted for as an individual
fund, subfund, or account within the major fund type to meet generally
accepted accounting principles.
(iii)  Existing and new activities of state government authorized by the
Legislature shall be accounted for within the framework of the major fund
types established in this section.
(c)  The Division of Finance shall determine the accounting classification
that complies with generally accepted accounting principles for all funds,
subfunds, or accounts created by the Legislature.
(d) (i)  Major fund types shall be added by amending this chapter.
(ii)  Whenever a new act creates or establishes a fund, subfund, or account
without amending this chapter, the reference to a fund, subfund, or account in
the new act shall be classified within one of the major fund types established
by this section.
(2)  Major Fund Type Titles:
(a)  General Fund;
(b)  Special Revenue Funds;
(c)  Capital Projects Funds;
(d)  Debt Service Funds;
(e)  Permanent Funds;
(f)  Enterprise Funds;
(g)  Internal Service Funds;
(h)  Trust and Agency Funds; and
(i)  Discrete Component Unit Funds.
(3)  The General Fund shall receive all revenues and account for all
expenditures not otherwise provided for by law in any other fund.
(4)  Special Revenue Funds account for proceeds of specific revenue sources,
other than permanent funds, trust and agency funds, or major capital projects,
that are legally restricted to expenditures for a specific purpose.
(a)  The Education Fund is a Special Revenue Fund that:
(i)  receives all revenues from taxes on intangible property or from a tax on
income; and
(ii)  is designated for public and higher education.
(b)  The Transportation Investment Fund of 2005 is a Special Revenue Fund that
accounts for revenues that are required by law to be expended for the
maintenance, construction, reconstruction, or renovation of certain state and
federal highways.
(c)  The Transportation Fund is a Special Revenue Fund that accounts for all
revenues that are required by law to be expended for highway purposes.
(d) (i)  A Restricted Special Revenue Fund is a Special Revenue Fund created
by legislation or contractual relationship with parties external to the state
that:
(A)  identifies specific revenues collected from fees, taxes, dedicated
credits, donations, federal funds, or other sources;
(B)  defines the use of the money in the fund for a specific function of
government or program within an agency; and
(C)  delegates spending authority or authorization to use the fund's assets to
a governing board, administrative department, or other officials as defined in
the enabling legislation or contract establishing the fund.
(ii)  A Restricted Special Revenue Fund may only be created by contractual
relationship with external parties when the sources of revenue for the fund
are donated revenues or federal revenues.
(iii)  Restricted Special Revenue Funds are subject to annual legislative
review by the appropriate legislative appropriations subcommittee.
(5)  Capital Projects Funds account for financial resources to be expended for
the acquisition or construction of major capital facilities, except that when
financing for the acquisition or construction of a major capital facility is
obtained from a trust fund or a proprietary type fund within one of the major
fund types, the money shall be accounted for in those accounts.
(6)  Debt Service Funds account for the accumulation of resources for, and the
payment of, the principal and interest on general long-term obligations.
(7)  Permanent Funds account for assets that are legally restricted to the
extent that only earnings, and not principal, may be used for a specific
purpose.
(8)  Enterprise Funds are designated to account for the following:
(a)  operations, financed and operated in a manner similar to private business
enterprises, where the Legislature intends that the costs of providing goods
or services to the public are financed or recovered primarily through user
charges;
(b)  operations where the Legislature requires periodic determination of
revenues earned, expenses incurred, and net income;
(c)  operations for which a fee is charged to external users for goods or
services; or
(d)  operations that are financed with debt that is secured solely by a pledge
of the net revenues from fees and charges of the operations.
(9)  Internal Service Funds account for the financing of goods or services
provided by one department, division, or agency to other departments,
divisions, or agencies of the state, or to other governmental units, on a
cost-reimbursement basis.
(10) (a)  Trust and Agency Funds account for assets held by the state as
trustee or agent for individuals, private organizations, or other governmental
units.
(b)  Pension Trust Funds, Investment Trust Funds, Private-Purpose Trust Funds,
and Agency Funds are Trust and Agency Funds.
(11)  Discrete Component Unit Funds account for the financial resources used
to operate the state's colleges and universities and other discrete component
units.
