17-35b-302.   Urban county structural form of county government.
(1)  The structural form of county government known as the "urban county" form
retains, without change or modification, except to the extent that changes or
modifications may be effectuated under other proceedings authorized by law,
all existing incorporated cities and towns, special taxing districts, public
authorities, service areas, and other local public entities functioning within
the boundaries of the county.  Under this form of government, the county
remains vested with all powers and duties vested in counties by general law,
but in addition is vested with and empowered to exercise within the
unincorporated territory of the county all powers and duties which, by general
law, are conferred upon cities whose population is equal to that of the
unincorporated territory of such county.
(2)  The urban county is empowered to enter into contractual arrangements for
the joint exercise of powers or for performance of services and, for that
purpose, may employ and be subject to the provisions of Title 11, Chapter 13,
Interlocal Cooperation Act.  By contract, the urban county may perform for any
city, town, special taxing district, public authority, service area, or other
local public entity within the county any governmental service or function
which such entity is lawfully empowered to perform for itself within its own
territory, or which the county is lawfully empowered to perform anywhere
within the county boundaries.  No contract service or function shall be
performed by the county except for a consideration which is at least
substantially equal to the cost of performing it.
(3)  The plan for an urban county form of county government may provide for
organization of the unincorporated territory of the county into one or more
service areas and, for this purpose, may provide for special organizing or
implementing procedures which differ from those provided in Title 17B, Chapter
2a, Part 9, Service Area Act.  Except to the extent that the plan provides to
the contrary, all noncontract services and functions lawfully performed by the
county solely within unincorporated territory and not on a countywide basis
shall, after the effective date of the plan, be considered performed and
extended solely as services of, and financed by and through, the county
service area.  The plan may provide for, limit, or condition the services and
functions which the urban county is authorized to perform and extend within
the territory of incorporated cities and towns within the county and may
provide procedures by which such provisions, limits, or conditions may be
established and changed from time to time.
(4)  The plan for the urban county shall provide for the election of a county
council, composed of not less than three members.  The council shall be the
county legislative body and shall exercise all legislative powers authorized
by law.  The plan shall specify:
(a)  whether the members of the council are to be elected from districts, at
large, or by a combination of district and at-large constituencies;
(b)  their qualifications and terms of office, and whether such terms are
concurrent or overlapping;
(c)  grounds for and methods for removal of council members from office;
(d)  procedures for filling vacancies on the council, provided that the
procedures shall conform with Section 20A-1-508; and
(e)  the compensation, if any, of council members together with procedures for
prescribing and changing such compensation from time to time.
