17-35b-304.    Consolidated city and county -- Structural form.
(1)  The structural form of county government known as the "consolidated city
and county" form unites in a single consolidated city and county government
the powers, duties, and functions which, immediately prior to its effective
date, are vested in the county, the largest city in the county, such other
cities and towns as elect to merge in it, and all special taxing districts,
public authorities, county service areas, and other local public entities
functioning within the boundaries of the county, except school districts. The
consolidated government shall with the consent of the continuing
municipalities have power to extend on a countywide basis any governmental
service or function which is authorized by law or which the previous county,
cities, and other local public agencies included in them were empowered to
provide for their residents. No such service, however, shall be provided
within an incorporated municipality which continues to provide that such
service for its own inhabitants, except upon a contract basis for the
municipality. No taxes, assessments, fees, or other charges shall be extended
or collected by the consolidated government within any municipality for the
purpose of financing any service which is not provided by the consolidated
government within the municipality. "Largest city," as used in this section,
means a city or cities the population of which, as shown by the most recent
decennial or special census, exceeds 35% of the total county population.
(2)  The incorporated cities and towns, other than the largest city in the
county, shall retain independent corporate existence and shall continue to
provide local services to their inhabitants of the type and to the extent
provided in the plan; but any such city or town by majority vote of its
qualified voters cast either concurrently with the election at which the plan
is approved or subsequently to it, as provided by the governing body of the
city or town, may cause the city or town to be dissolved and its powers,
duties, and functions vested in the consolidated government.
(3)  The governing body of the consolidated government shall be a council
composed of not less than five persons elected as specified in the plan. In
addition to other powers vested in the consolidated government by law or
pursuant to this act, the county council shall have all the legislative and
policymaking powers which it is possible for the governing body of a county or
a city to possess and which are not expressly denied by the constitution, by
general law applicable to all cities or all counties, or by a specific
restriction in the plan itself.
(4)  Except as provided in this act, the qualifications, mode of election,
term of office, method of removal, procedure to fill vacancies, compensation,
or other appropriate provisions relating to membership on the county council
shall be provided in the plan.
(5)  Upon the effective date of the plan, as provided in it, all properties
and assets, whether tangible or intangible, and all obligations, debts, and
liabilities of those governmental entities which are merged into the
consolidated government shall become vested and transferred by operation of
law in and to the consolidated government. The properties, assets,
obligations, debts, and liabilities of any city or town not merged into the
consolidated government, so far as allocated, used, or incurred primarily to
discharge a function which under the plan will no longer be a responsibility
of the city or town, shall likewise be vested in and transferred to the
consolidated government. All transfers under this Subsection (5) shall be
subject to equitable adjustments, conditions, and limitations provided in the
plan and determined by procedures specified in the plan, but the contractual
rights of any bondholder or creditor shall not be impaired.
(6)  Upon the effective date of the plan, and as provided in it, nonelective
officers and employees of the governmental entities which are merged into the
consolidated government and such officers and employees of nonmerged cities or
towns whose qualifications and duties relate primarily to functions which
under the plan will no longer be a responsibility of those cities or towns
shall be blanketed in and transferred to the consolidated government as
officers and employees of it. Standards and procedures relating to such
personnel transfers and for resolving disputes or grievances relating to them
shall be provided in the plan.
