4-22-3.   Commission -- Organization -- Quorum to transact business --
Vacancies -- Ineligibility to serve -- Compensation.
(1)  The members of the commission shall elect a chair, vice chair, and
secretary from among their number.
(2)  Attendance of a simple majority of the commission members at a called
meeting shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of official business.
(3)  The commission shall meet:
(a)  at the time and place designated by the chair; and
(b)  no less often than once every three months.
(4)  Vacancies which occur on the commission for any reason shall be filled
for the unexpired term of the vacated member by appointment of a majority of
the remaining members.
(5)  If a member moves from the district that he represents or ceases to act
as a producer during his term of office, he must resign from the commission
within 30 days after moving from the district or ceasing production.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the commission at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Higher education members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties from
the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Higher education members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
