76-5-110.   Abuse or neglect of a child with a disability.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Abuse" means:

(i)  inflicting physical injury, as that term is defined in Section 76-5-109;

(ii)  having the care or custody of a child with a disability, causing or permitting another to inflict physical injury, as that term is defined in Section 76-5-109; or

(iii)  unreasonable confinement.

(b)  "Caretaker" means:

(i)  any parent, legal guardian, or other person having under that person's care and custody a child with a disability; or

(ii)  any person, corporation, or public institution that has assumed by contract or court order the responsibility to provide food, shelter, clothing, medical, and other necessities to a child with a disability.

(c)  "Child with a disability" means any person under 18 years of age who is impaired because of mental illness, mental deficiency, physical illness or disability, or other cause, to the extent that the person is unable to care for the person's own personal safety or to provide necessities such as food, shelter, clothing, and medical care.

(d)  "Neglect" means failure by a caretaker to provide care, nutrition, clothing, shelter, supervision, or medical care.

(2)  Any caretaker who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abuses or neglects a child with a disability is guilty of a third degree felony.

(3) (a)  A parent or legal guardian who provides a child with treatment by spiritual means alone through prayer, in lieu of medical treatment, in accordance with the tenets and practices of an established church or religious denomination of which the parent or legal guardian is a member or adherent shall not, for that reason alone, be considered to be in violation under this section.

(b)  Subject to Subsection 78A-6-117(2)(n)(iii), the exception under Subsection (3)(a) does not preclude a court from ordering medical services from a physician licensed to engage in the practice of medicine to be provided to the child where there is substantial risk of harm to the child's health or welfare if the treatment is not provided.

(c)  A caretaker of a child with a disability does not violate this section by selecting a treatment option for a medical condition of a child with a disability, if the treatment option is one that a reasonable caretaker would believe to be in the best interest of the child with a disability.

