76-5-111.1.   Reporting requirements -- Investigation -- Immunity --
Violation -- Penalty -- Physician-patient privilege -- Nonmedical healing.
(1)  As provided in Section 62A-3-305, any person who has reason to believe
that any vulnerable adult has been the subject of abuse, neglect, or
exploitation shall immediately notify the nearest peace officer, law
enforcement agency, or Adult Protective Services intake within the Department
of Human Services, Division of Aging and Adult Services.
(2)  Anyone who makes that report in good faith to a law enforcement agency,
the Division of Aging and Adult Services, or Adult Protective Services of
suspected abuse, neglect, or exploitation is immune from civil and criminal
liability in connection with the report or other notification.
(3) (a)  When the initial report is made to a peace officer or law enforcement
agency, the officer or law enforcement agency shall immediately notify Adult
Protective Services  intake.  Adult Protective Services and law enforcement
shall coordinate, as appropriate, their investigations and provide protection
to the vulnerable adult as necessary.
(b)  Adult Protective Services will  notify the Long-Term Care Ombudsman, as
defined in Section 62A-3-202, when the initial report to Adult Protective
Services involves a resident of a long-term care facility as defined in
Section 62A-3-202.  The Long-Term Care Ombudsman and Adult Protective Services
shall coordinate, as appropriate, in conducting their investigations.
(c)  When the initial report or subsequent investigation by Adult Protective
Services indicates that a criminal offense may have occurred against a
vulnerable adult, Adult Protective Services shall immediately notify the
nearest local law enforcement agency.  That law enforcement agency shall
initiate an investigation in cooperation with Adult Protective Services.
(4)  A person who is required to report suspected abuse, neglect, or
exploitation of a vulnerable adult under Subsection (1), and who willfully
fails to do so, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
(5)  Under circumstances not amounting to a violation of Section 76-8-508, a
person who threatens, intimidates, or attempts to intimidate a vulnerable
adult who is the subject of a report, a witness, the person who made the
report, or any other person cooperating with an investigation conducted
pursuant to this chapter is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
(6)  The physician-patient privilege does not constitute grounds for excluding
evidence regarding a vulnerable adult's injuries, or the cause of those
injuries, in any judicial or administrative proceeding resulting from a report
made in good faith pursuant to this part.
(7)  An adult is not considered abused, neglected, or a vulnerable adult for
the reason that the adult has chosen to rely solely upon religious, nonmedical
forms of healing in lieu of medical care.
