76-5-413.   Custodial sexual relations or misconduct with youth receiving
state services -- Definitions -- Penalties -- Defenses.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Actor" means:
(i)  a person employed by the Department of Human Services, as created in
Section 62A-1-102, or an employee of a private provider or contractor; or
(ii)  a person employed by the juvenile court of the state, or an employee of
a private provider or contractor.
(b)  "Department" means the Department of Human Services created in Section
62A-1-102.
(c)  "Juvenile court" means the juvenile court of the state created in Section
78A-6-102.
(d)  "Private provider or contractor" means any person or entity that
contracts with the:
(i)  department to provide services or functions that are part of the
operation of the department; or
(ii)  juvenile court to provide services or functions that are part of the
operation of the juvenile court.
(e)  "Youth receiving state services" means a person:
(i)  younger than 18 years of age, except as provided under Subsection
(1)(e)(ii), who is:
(A)  in the custody of the department under Subsection 78A-6-117(2)(c)(ii); or
(B)  receiving services from any division of the department if any portion of
the costs of these services is covered by public monies as defined in Section
76-8-401; or
(ii)  younger than 21 years of age who is:
(A)  in the custody of the Division of Juvenile Justice Services, or the
Division of Child and Family Services; or
(B)  under the jurisdiction of the juvenile court.
(2) (a)  An actor commits custodial sexual relations with a youth receiving
state services if the actor commits any of the acts under Subsection (3):
(i)  under circumstances not amounting to commission of, or an attempt to
commit, an offense under Subsection (6); and
(ii) (A)  the actor knows that the individual is a youth receiving state
services; or
(B)  a reasonable person in the actor's position should have known under the
circumstances that the individual was a youth receiving state services.
(b)  A violation of Subsection (2)(a) is a third degree felony, but if the
youth receiving state services is younger than 18 years of age, a violation of
Subsection (2)(a) is a second degree felony.
(c)  If the act committed under this Subsection (2) amounts to an offense
subject to a greater penalty under another provision of state law than is
provided under this Subsection (2), this Subsection (2) does not prohibit
prosecution and sentencing for the more serious offense.
(3)  Acts referred to in Subsection (2)(a) are:
(a)  having sexual intercourse with a youth receiving state services;
(b)  engaging in any sexual act with a youth receiving state services
involving the genitals of one person and the mouth or anus of another person,
regardless of the sex of either participant; or
(c)  causing the penetration, however slight, of the genital or anal opening
of a youth receiving state services by any foreign object, substance,
instrument, or device, including a part of the human body, with the intent to
cause substantial emotional or bodily pain to any person, regardless of the
sex of any participant or with the intent to arouse or gratify the sexual
desire of any person, regardless of the sex of any participant.
(4) (a)  An actor commits custodial sexual misconduct with a youth receiving
state services if the actor commits any of the acts under Subsection (5):
(i)  under circumstances not amounting to commission of, or an attempt to
commit, an offense under Subsection (6); and
(ii) (A)  the actor knows that the individual is a youth receiving state
services; or
(B)  a reasonable person in the actor's position should have known under the
circumstances that the individual was a youth receiving state services.
(b)  A violation of Subsection (4)(a) is a class A misdemeanor, but if the
youth receiving state services is younger than 18 years of age, a violation of
Subsection (4)(a) is a third degree felony.
(c)  If the act committed under this Subsection (4) amounts to an offense
subject to a greater penalty under another provision of state law than is
provided under this Subsection (4), this Subsection (4) does not prohibit
prosecution and sentencing for the more serious offense.
(5)  Acts referred to in Subsection (4)(a) are the following acts when
committed with the intent to cause substantial emotional or bodily pain to any
person or with the intent to arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any
person, regardless of the sex of any participant:
(a)  touching the anus, buttocks, or any part of the genitals of a youth
receiving state services;
(b)  touching the breast of a female youth receiving state services;
(c)  otherwise taking indecent liberties with a youth receiving state
services; or
(d)  causing a youth receiving state services to take indecent liberties with
the actor or another person.
(6)  The offenses referred to in Subsections (2)(a)(i) and (4)(a)(i) are:
(a)  Section 76-5-401, unlawful sexual activity with a minor;
(b)  Section 76-5-402, rape;
(c)  Section 76-5-402.1, rape of a child;
(d)  Section 76-5-402.2, object rape;
(e)  Section 76-5-402.3, object rape of a child;
(f)  Section 76-5-403, forcible sodomy;
(g)  Section 76-5-403.1, sodomy on a child;
(h)  Section 76-5-404, forcible sexual abuse;
(i)  Section 76-5-404.1, sexual abuse of a child or aggravated sexual abuse of
a child; or
(j)  Section 76-5-405, aggravated sexual assault.
(7) (a)  It is not a defense to the commission of the offense of custodial
sexual relations with a youth receiving state services under Subsection (2) or
custodial sexual misconduct with a youth receiving state services under
Subsection (4), or an attempt to commit either of these offenses, if the youth
receiving state services is younger than 18 years of age, that the actor:
(i)  mistakenly believed the youth receiving state services to be 18 years of
age or older at the time of the alleged offense; or
(ii)  was unaware of the true age of the youth receiving state services.
(b)  Consent of the youth receiving state services is not a defense to any
violation or attempted violation of Subsection (2) or (4).
(8)  It is a defense that the commission by the actor of an act under
Subsection (2) or (4) is the result of compulsion, as the defense is described
in Subsection 76-2-302(1).
