76-5-501.   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:

(1)  "Alleged sexual offender" means a person or a minor regarding whom an indictment, petition, or an information has been filed or an arrest has been made alleging the commission of a sexual offense or an attempted sexual offense under Title 76, Chapter 5, Part 4, Sexual Offenses, and regarding which:

(a)  a judge has signed an accompanying arrest warrant, pickup order, or any other order based upon probable cause regarding the alleged offense; and

(b)  the judge has found probable cause to believe that the alleged victim has been exposed to HIV infection as a result of the alleged offense.

(2)  "Department of Health" means the state Department of Health as defined in Section 26-1-2.

(3)  "HIV infection" means an indication of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection determined by current medical standards and detected by any of the following:

(a)  presence of antibodies to HIV, verified by a positive "confirmatory" test, such as Western blot or other method approved by the Utah State Health Laboratory.  Western blot interpretation will be based on criteria currently recommended by the Association of State and Territorial Public Health Laboratory Directors;

(b)  presence of HIV antigen;

(c)  isolation of HIV; or

(d)  demonstration of HIV proviral DNA.

(4)  "HIV positive individual" means a person who is HIV positive as determined by the State Health Laboratory.

(5)  "Local department of health" means the department as defined in Subsection 26A-1-102(5).

(6)  "Minor" means a person younger than 18 years of age.

(7)  "Positive" means an indication of the HIV infection as defined in Subsection (3).

(8)  "Sexual offense" means a violation of state law prohibiting a sexual offense under Title 76, Chapter 5, Part 4, Sexual Offenses.

(9)  "Test" or "testing" means a test or tests for HIV infection conducted by and in accordance with standards recommended by the Department of Health.



Amended by Chapter 177, 2011 General Session

