51-7a-301.   Investment advisory committee -- Creation.
(1) (a)  There is created an investment advisory committee of seven members
appointed as follows:
(i)  one member appointed by the president of the University of Utah;
(ii)  one member appointed by the president of Utah State University;
(iii)  two members appointed by the state superintendent of public
instruction;
(iv)  one member appointed by the president of the Utah Education Association;
(v)  one member appointed by the president of the Utah Parent Teachers
Association; and
(vi)  one member appointed by the Board of Trustees of the School and
Institutional Trust Lands Administration.
(b)  In making appointments, the appointing authority shall appoint candidates
with experience in securities, investments, or banking, or other experience
that would aid the committee in fulfilling its responsibilities.
(2) (a) (i)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(a)(ii), as terms of current
committee members expire, the appointing authority shall appoint each new
member or reappointed member to a four-year term.
(ii)  The appointing authority shall, at the time of appointment or
reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of
committee members are staggered so that approximately half of the committee is
appointed every two years.
(b)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(3)  The investment advisory committee shall meet at least quarterly.
(4)  The investment advisory committee shall elect a chair and vice chair.
(5) (a)  A committee member shall disclose any conflict of interest to the
board.
(b)  If the conflict involves a direct, personal financial interest in either
the subject under consideration or an entity or asset that could be
substantially affected by the outcome of committee advice, the member may not
vote on the matter.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A state government member who is a member because of his state
government position may not receive per diem or expenses for his service.
(iii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive
per diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
