4-25-4.   Possession of estrays -- Determination and location of owner --
Sale -- Disposition of proceeds -- Notice -- Title of purchaser -- Immunity
from liability.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Section 4-25-5, a county shall:
(i)  take physical possession of an estray it finds within its boundaries; and
(ii)  attempt to determine the name and location of the estray's owner.
(b)  The department shall assist a county that requests its help in
determining the name and location of the owner or other person responsible for
the estray.
(c) (i)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Title 67, Chapter 4a, Unclaimed
Property Act, if the county cannot determine the estray's owner, or, if having
determined ownership, neither the county nor the department is able to locate
the owner within a reasonable period of time, the estray shall be sold at a
livestock or other appropriate market.
(ii)  The proceeds of a sale under Subsection (1)(c)(i), less the costs
described in Subsection (1)(c)(iii), shall be paid to the county selling the
estray.
(iii)  The livestock or other market conducting the sale under Subsection
(1)(c)(i) may deduct the cost of feed, transportation, and other market costs
from the proceeds of the sale.
(2)  A county shall publish notice of the sale of an estray:
(a)  at least once 10 days before the date of the sale; and
(b)  in a publication with general circulation within the county where the
estray was taken into custody.
(3)  A purchaser of an estray sold under this section shall receive title to
the estray free and clear of all claims of the estray's owner and a person
claiming title through the owner.
(4)  A county that complies with the provisions of this section is immune from
liability for the sale of an estray sold at a livestock or other appropriate
market.
(5)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (1)(c), a county may
employ a licensed veterinarian to euthanize an estray if the licensed
veterinarian determines that the estray's physical condition prevents the
estray from being sold.
