40-6-2.   Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter:
(1)  "Board" means the Board of Oil, Gas, and Mining.
(2)  "Correlative rights" means the opportunity of each owner in a pool to
produce his just and equitable share of the oil and gas in the pool without
waste.
(3)  "Condensate" means hydrocarbons, regardless of gravity, that:
(a)  occur naturally in the gaseous phase in the reservoir; and
(b)  are separated from the natural gas as liquids through the process of
condensation either in the reservoir, in the wellbore, or at the surface in
field separators.
(4)  "Consenting owner" means an owner who consents in advance to the drilling
and operation of a well and agrees to bear his proportionate share of the
costs of the drilling and operation of the well.
(5)  "Crude oil" means hydrocarbons, regardless of gravity, that:
(a)  occur naturally in the liquid phase in the reservoir; and
(b)  are produced and recovered at the wellhead in liquid form.
(6) (a)  "Gas" means natural gas, as defined in Subsection (9), natural gas
liquids, as defined in Subsection (10), other gas, as defined in Subsection
(14), or any mixture of them.
(b)  "Gas" does not include any gaseous or liquid substance processed from
coal, oil shale, or tar sands.
(7)  "Illegal oil" or "illegal gas" means oil or gas that has been produced
from any well within the state in violation of this chapter or any rule or
order of the board.
(8)  "Illegal product" means any product derived in whole or in part from
illegal oil or illegal gas.
(9) (a)  "Natural gas" means hydrocarbons that occur naturally in the gaseous
phase in the reservoir and are produced and recovered at the wellhead in
gaseous form, except natural gas liquids as defined in Subsection (10) and
condensate as defined in Subsection (3).
(b)  "Natural gas" includes coalbed methane gas.
(10)  "Natural gas liquids" means hydrocarbons, regardless of gravity, that
are separated from  natural gas as liquids in gas processing plants through
the process of condensation, absorption, adsorption, or other methods.
(11)  "Nonconsenting owner" means an owner who after written notice does not
consent in advance to the drilling and operation of a well or agree to bear
his proportionate share of the costs.
(12) (a)  "Oil" means crude oil, as defined in Subsection (5), condensate, as
defined in Subsection (3), or any mixture of them.
(b)  "Oil" does not include any gaseous or liquid substance processed from
coal, oil shale, or tar sands.
(13) (a)  "Oil and gas proceeds" means any payment that:
(i)  derives from oil and gas production from any well located in the state;
(ii)  is expressed as a right to a specified interest in the:
(A)  cash proceeds received from the sale of the oil and gas; or
(B)  the cash value of the oil and gas; and
(iii)  is subject to any tax withheld from the payment pursuant to law.
(b)  "Oil and gas proceeds" includes a royalty interest, overriding royalty
interest, production payment interest, or working interest.
(c)  "Oil and gas proceeds" does not include a net profits interest or other
interest the extent of which cannot be determined with reference to a
specified share of:
(i)  the cash proceeds received from the sale of the oil and gas; or
(ii)  the cash value of the oil and gas.
(14) (a)  "Other gas" means nonhydrocarbon gases that:
(i)  occur naturally in the gaseous phase in the reservoir; or
(ii)  are injected into the reservoir in connection with pressure maintenance,
gas cycling, or other secondary or enhanced recovery projects.
(b)  "Other gas" includes hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide, helium, and
nitrogen.
(15)  "Owner" means the person who has the right:
(a)  to drill into and produce from a reservoir; and
(b)  appropriate the oil and gas produced for himself or for himself and
others.
(16)  "Operator" means the person who has been designated by the owners or the
board to operate a well or unit.
(17)  "Payor" means the person who undertakes to distribute oil and gas
proceeds to the persons entitled to them, whether as the first purchaser of
that production, as operator of the well from which the production was
obtained, or as lessee under the lease on which royalty is due.
(18)  "Pool" means an underground reservoir containing a common accumulation
of oil or gas or both.  Each zone of a general structure that is completely
separated from any other zone in the structure is a separate pool.  "Common
source of supply" and "reservoir" are synonymous with "pool."
(19)  "Pooling" means the bringing together of separately owned interests for
the common development and operation of a drilling unit.
(20)  "Producer" means the owner or operator of a well capable of producing
oil and gas.
(21)  "Product" means any commodity made from oil and gas.
(22)  "Waste" means:
(a)  the inefficient, excessive, or improper use or the unnecessary
dissipation of oil or gas or reservoir energy;
(b)  the inefficient storing of oil or gas;
(c)  the locating, drilling, equipping, operating, or producing of any oil or
gas well in a manner that causes:
(i)  a reduction in the quantity of oil or gas ultimately recoverable from a
reservoir under prudent and economical operations;
(ii)  unnecessary wells to be drilled; or
(iii)  the loss or destruction of oil or gas either at the surface or
subsurface; or
(d)  the production of oil or gas in excess of:
(i)  transportation or storage facilities; or
(ii)  the amount reasonably required to be produced as a result of the proper
drilling, completing, testing, or operating of a well or otherwise utilized on
the lease from which it is produced.
