40-6-4.   Board of Oil, Gas, and Mining created -- Functions -- Appointment
of members -- Terms -- Chair -- Quorum -- Expenses.
(1)  There is created within the Department of Natural Resources the Board of
Oil, Gas, and Mining.  The board shall be the policy making body for the
Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining.
(2)  The board shall consist of seven members appointed by the governor with
the consent of the Senate.  No more than four members shall be from the same
political party. In addition to the requirements of Section 79-2-203, the
members shall have the following qualifications:
(a)  two members knowledgeable in mining matters;
(b)  two members knowledgeable in oil and gas matters;
(c)  one member knowledgeable in ecological and environmental matters;
(d)  one member who is a private land owner, owns a mineral or royalty
interest and is knowledgeable in those interests; and
(e)  one member who is knowledgeable in geological matters.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current board
members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(4) (a)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the
replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term by the governor with the
consent of the Senate.
(b)  The person appointed shall have the same qualifications as his
predecessor.
(5)  The board shall appoint its chair from the membership.  Four members of
the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the
holding of hearings.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
