64-13-14.5.   Limits of confinement place -- Release status -- Work release.

(1)  The department may extend the limits of the place of confinement of an inmate when, as established by department policies and procedures, there is cause to believe the inmate will honor his trust, by authorizing him under prescribed conditions:

(a)  to leave temporarily for purposes specified by department policies and procedures to visit specifically designated places for a period not to exceed 30 days;

(b)  to participate in a voluntary training program in the community while housed at a correctional facility or to work at paid employment;

(c)  to be housed in a nonsecure community correctional center operated by the department; or

(d)  to be housed in any other facility under contract with the department.

(2)  The department shall establish rules governing offenders on release status.  A copy of the rules shall be furnished to the offender and to any employer or other person participating in the offender's release program. Any employer or other participating person shall agree in writing to abide by the rules and to notify the department of the offender's discharge or other release from a release program activity, or of any violation of the rules governing release status.

(3)  The willful failure of an inmate to remain within the extended limits of his confinement or to return within the time prescribed to an institution or facility designated by the department is an escape from custody.

(4)  If an offender is arrested for the commission of a crime, the arresting authority shall immediately notify the department of the arrest.

(5)  The department may impose appropriate sanctions upon offenders who violate rules, including prosecution for escape under Section 76-8-309 and for unauthorized absence.

(6)  An inmate who is housed at a nonsecure correctional facility and on work release may not be required to work for less than the current federally established minimum wage, or under substandard working conditions.

