64-13-15.   Property of offender -- Storage and disposal.
(1) (a)  Offenders may retain personal property at correctional facilities
only as authorized by the department.  An offender's property which is
retained by the department shall be inventoried and placed in storage by the
department and a receipt for the property shall be issued to the offender.
Offenders shall be required to arrange for disposal of property retained by
the department within a reasonable time under department rules.  Property
retained by the department shall be returned to the offender at discharge, or
in accordance with Title 75, Utah Uniform Probate Code, in the case of death
prior to discharge.
(b)  If property is not claimed within one year of  discharge, or it is not
disposed of by the offender within a reasonable time after the department's
order to arrange for disposal, it becomes property of the state and may be
used for correctional purposes or donated to a charity within the state.
(c)  If an inmate's property is not claimed within one year of his death, it
becomes the property of the state in accordance with Section 75-2-105.
(d)  Funds which are contraband and in the physical custody of any prisoner,
whether in the form of currency and coin which are legal tender in any
jurisdiction or negotiable instruments drawn upon a personal or business
account, shall be subject to forfeiture following a hearing which accords with
prevailing standards of due process.  All such forfeited funds shall be used
by the department for purposes which promote the general welfare of prisoners
in the custody of the department.  Money and negotiable instruments taken from
offenders' mail under department rule and which are not otherwise contraband
shall be placed in an account administered by the department, to the credit of
the offender who owns the money or negotiable instruments.
(2)  Upon discharge from a secure correctional facility, the department may
give an inmate transition funds in an amount established by the department
with the approval of the director of the Division of Finance. At its
discretion, the department may spend the funds directly on the purchase of
necessities or transportation for the discharged inmate.
