64-13-20.   Investigative services -- Presentence investigation reports.
(1)  The department shall:
(a)  provide investigative services and prepare reports to:
(i)  assist the courts in sentencing;
(ii)  assist the Board of Pardons and Parole in its decision-making
responsibilities regarding offenders;
(iii)  assist the department in managing offenders; and
(iv)  assure the professional and accountable management of the department;
(b)  establish standards for providing investigative services based on
available resources, giving priority to felony cases; and
(c)  employ staff for the purpose of conducting:
(i)  thorough presentence investigations of the social, physical, and mental
conditions and backgrounds of offenders; and
(ii)  examinations when required by the court or the Board of Pardons and
Parole.
(2)  The department may provide recommendations concerning appropriate
measures to be taken regarding offenders.
(3) (a)  The presentence investigation reports prepared by the department are
protected as defined in Section 63G-2-305 and after sentencing may not be
released except by express court order or by rules made by the Department of
Corrections.
(b)  The reports are intended only for use by:
(i)  the court in the sentencing process;
(ii)  the Board of Pardons and Parole in its decisionmaking responsibilities;
and
(iii)  the department in the supervision, confinement, and treatment of the
offender.
(4)  Presentence investigation reports shall be made available upon request to
other correctional programs within the state if the offender who is the
subject of the report has been committed or is being evaluated for commitment
to the facility for treatment as a condition of probation or parole.
(5) (a)  The presentence investigation reports shall include a victim impact
statement in all felony cases and in misdemeanor cases if the defendant caused
bodily harm or death to the victim.
(b)  Victim impact statements shall:
(i)  identify the victim of the offense;
(ii)  itemize any economic loss suffered by the victim as a result of the
offense;
(iii)  identify any physical, mental, or emotional injuries suffered by the
victim as a result of the offense, and the seriousness and permanence;
(iv)  describe any change in the victim's personal welfare or familial
relationships as a result of the offense;
(v)  identify any request for mental health services initiated by the victim
or the victim's family as a result of the offense; and
(vi)  contain any other information related to the impact of the offense upon
the victim or the victim's family that the court requires.
(6)  If the victim is deceased; under a mental, physical, or legal disability;
or otherwise unable to provide the information required under this section,
the information may be obtained from the personal representative, guardian, or
family members, as necessary.
(7)  The department shall employ staff necessary to pursue investigations of
complaints from the public, staff, or offenders regarding the management of
corrections programs.
