64-13-30.   Expenses incurred by offenders -- Payment to department or county jail -- Medical care expenses and copayments.

(1) (a)  The department shall establish and collect from each offender on a work release program the reasonable costs of the offender's maintenance, transportation, and incidental expenses incurred by the department on behalf of the offender.

(b)  Priority shall be given to restitution and family support obligations.

(c)  The offender's reimbursement to the department for the cost of obtaining the offender's DNA specimen under Section 53-10-404 is the next priority after Subsection (1)(b).

(2)  The department, under its rules, may advance funds to any offender as necessary to establish the offender in a work release program.

(3) (a)  The department or county jail may require an inmate to make a copayment for medical and dental services provided by the department or county jail.

(b)  For services provided while in the custody of the department, the copayment by the inmate is $5 for primary medical care, $5 for dental care, and $2 for prescription medication.

(c)  For services provided outside of a prison facility while in the custody of the department, the offender is responsible for 10% of the costs associated with hospital care with a cap on an inmate's share of hospital care expenses not to exceed $2,000 per fiscal year.

(4) (a)  An inmate who has assets exceeding $200,000, as determined by the department upon entry into the department's custody, is responsible to pay the costs of all medical and dental care up to 20% of the inmate's total determined asset value.

(b)  After an inmate has received medical and dental care equal to 20% of the inmate's total asset value, the inmate is subject to the copayments provided in Subsection (3).

(5)  The department shall turn over to the Office of State Debt Collection any debt under this section that is unpaid at the time the offender is released from parole.

(6)  An inmate may not be denied medical treatment if the inmate is unable to pay for the treatment because of inadequate financial resources.

(7)  When an offender in the custody of the department receives medical care that is provided outside of a prison facility, the department shall pay the costs:

(a)  at the contracted rate; or

(b) (i)  if there is no contract between the department and a health care facility that establishes a fee schedule for medical services rendered, expenses shall be at the noncapitated state Medicaid rate in effect at the time the service was provided; and

(ii)  if there is no contract between the department and a health care provider that establishes a fee schedule for medical services rendered, expenses shall be 65% of the amount that would be paid under the Public Employees' Benefit and Insurance Program, created in Section 49-20-103.

(8)  Expenses described in Subsection (7) are a cost to the department only to the extent that they exceed an offender's private insurance that is in effect at the time of the service and that covers those expenses.

(9) (a)  The Public Employees' Benefit and Insurance Program shall provide information to the department that enables the department to calculate the amount to be paid to a health care provider under Subsection (7)(b).

(b)  The department shall ensure that information provided under Subsection (9)(a) is confidential.



Amended by Chapter 386, 2010 General Session

