64-13-30.5.   Payment by inmate for postsecondary educational tuition.
(1) (a)  An inmate participating in a postsecondary education program through
the department shall pay to the department at the time of enrollment 50% of
the costs of the postsecondary education tuition.
(b)  If an inmate desires to participate in the postsecondary education
program but is unable to pay the costs of the education because of inadequate
financial resources, the inmate may participate in a deferred tuition payment
program under this section.
(c)  The department and the Office of State Debt Collection shall coordinate a
deferred postsecondary education tuition repayment program to provide inmates
a reasonable payment schedule and payment amount to allow for deferred payment
of the postsecondary educational tuition obligation the inmate incurred while
under supervision of the department, which shall:
(i)  account for all postsecondary education tuition costs incurred by the
inmate while under the supervision of the department;
(ii)  establish an appropriate time for the inmate to begin payment of
postsecondary education tuition costs, which shall require that payments start
no later than two years after termination of parole; and
(iii)  establish a payment schedule and payment amounts, including prevailing
interest rates, commensurate with student loans currently being offered by
local financial institutions.
(d)  Neither the department nor the Office of State Debt Collection may
relieve an offender of the postsecondary tuition repayment responsibility.
(e)  The department shall pay costs of postsecondary education not paid by the
offender at the time of participation in the program from the Prison Telephone
Surcharge Account.
(2) (a)  Of those tuition funds collected by the Office of State Debt
Collection under this section, 10% may be used by the Office of State Debt
Collection for operation of the deferred payment program.
(b)  All other funds collected as repayment for postsecondary tuition costs
shall be deposited in the Prison Telephone Surcharge Account.
(3)  Only inmates lawfully present in the United States may participate in the
postsecondary educational program offered through the department.
