23-14-2.6.   Regional advisory councils -- Creation -- Membership -- Duties
-- Per diem and expenses.
(1)  There are created five regional advisory councils which shall consist of
12 to 15 members each from the wildlife region whose boundaries are
established for administrative purposes by the division.
(2)  The members shall include individuals who represent the following groups
and interests:
(a) agriculture;
(b)  sportsmen;
(c)  nonconsumptive wildlife;
(d)  locally elected public officials;
(e)  federal land agencies; and
(f)  the public at large.
(3)  The executive director of the Department of Natural Resources, in
consultation with the director of the Division of Wildlife Resources, shall
select the members from a list of nominees submitted by the respective
interest group or agency.
(4)  The councils shall:
(a)  hear broad input, including recommendations, biological data, and
information regarding the effects of wildlife;
(b)  gather information from staff, the public, and government agencies; and
(c)  make recommendations to the Wildlife Board in an advisory capacity.
(5) (a) Except as required by Subsection (b), each member shall serve a four-
year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (a), the executive
director shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length
of terms to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that
approximately half of the council is appointed every two years.
(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(7)  The councils shall determine:
(a)  the time and place of meetings; and
(b)  any other procedural matter not specified in this chapter.
(8)  Members of the councils shall complete an orientation course as provided
in Subsection 23-14-2(8).
(9) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the council at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
