23-14-2.   Wildlife Board -- Creation -- Membership -- Terms -- Quorum -- Meetings -- Per diem and expenses.

(1)  There is created a Wildlife Board which shall consist of seven members appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate.

(2) (a)  In addition to the requirements of Section 79-2-203, the members of the board shall have expertise or experience in at least one of the following areas:

(i)  wildlife management or biology;

(ii)  habitat management, including range or aquatic;

(iii)  business, including knowledge of private land issues; and

(iv)  economics, including knowledge of recreational wildlife uses.

(b)  Each of the areas of expertise under Subsection (2)(a) shall be represented by at least one member of the Wildlife Board.

(3) (a)  The governor shall select each board member from a list of nominees submitted by the nominating committee pursuant to Section 23-14-2.5.

(b)  No more than two members shall be from a single wildlife region described in Subsection 23-14-2.6(1).

(c)  The governor may request an additional list of at least two nominees from the nominating committee if the initial list of nominees for a given position is unacceptable.

(d) (i)  If the governor fails to appoint a board member within 60 days after receipt of the initial or additional list, the nominating committee shall make an interim appointment by majority vote.

(ii)  The interim board member shall serve until the matter is resolved by the committee and the governor or until the board member is replaced pursuant to this chapter.

(4) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (4)(b), as terms of current board members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a six-year term.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (4)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that:

(i)  the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately 1/3 of the board is appointed every two years; and

(ii)  members serving from the same region have staggered terms.

(c)  If a vacancy occurs, the nominating committee shall submit two names, as provided in Subsection 23-14-2.5(4), to the governor and the governor shall appoint a replacement for the unexpired term.

(d)  Board members may serve only one term unless:

(i)  the member is among the first board members appointed to serve four years or less; or

(ii)  the member filled a vacancy under Subsection (4)(c) for four years or less.

(5) (a)  The board shall elect a chair and a vice chair from its membership.

(b)  Four members of the board shall constitute a quorum.

(c)  The director of the Division of Wildlife Resources shall act as secretary to the board but shall not be a voting member of the board.

(6) (a)  The Wildlife Board shall hold a sufficient number of public meetings each year to expeditiously conduct its business.

(b)  Meetings may be called by the chair upon five days notice or upon shorter notice in emergency situations.

(c)  Meetings may be held at the Salt Lake City office of the Division of Wildlife Resources or elsewhere as determined by the Wildlife Board.

(7)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(8) (a)  The members of the Wildlife Board shall complete an orientation course to assist them in the performance of the duties of their office.

(b)  The Department of Natural Resources shall provide the course required under Subsection (8)(a).

