23-14-21.   Transplants of big game, turkeys, wolves, or sensitive species.
(1)  The division may transplant big game, turkeys, wolves, or sensitive
species only in accordance with:
(a)  a list of sites for the transplant of a particular species that is
prepared and adopted in accordance with Subsections (2) through (5);
(b)  a species management plan, such as a deer or elk management plan adopted
under Section 23-16-7 or a recovery plan for a threatened or endangered
species, provided that:
(i)  the plan identifies sites for the transplant of the species or the lands
or waters the species are expected to occupy; and
(ii)  the public has had an opportunity to comment and make recommendations on
the plan; or
(c)  a legal agreement between the state and a tribal government that
identifies potential transplants; and
(d)  the Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 U.S.C. Sec. 1531 et seq.
(2)  The division shall:
(a)  consult with the landowner in determining the suitability of a site for
the transplant of a species;
(b)  prepare a list of proposed sites for the transplant of species;
(c)  provide notification of proposed sites for the transplant of species to:
(i)  local government officials having jurisdiction over areas that may be
affected by a transplant; and
(ii)  the Resource Development Coordinating Committee created in Section
63J-4-501.
(3)  After receiving comments from local government officials and the Resource
Development Coordinating Committee, the division shall submit the list of
proposed transplant sites, or a revised list, to regional advisory councils
for regions that may be affected by the transplants of species.
(4)  Each regional advisory council reviewing a list of proposed sites for the
transplant of species may submit recommendations to the Wildlife Board.
(5)  The Wildlife Board shall approve, modify, or reject each proposal for the
transplant of a species.
(6)  Each list of proposed transplant sites approved by the Wildlife Board
shall have a termination date after which a transplant may not occur.
