70A-7a-210.   Enforcement of warehouse's lien.
(1)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsection (2), a warehouse's lien may be
enforced by public or private sale of the goods, in bulk or in packages, at
any time or place and on any terms that are commercially reasonable, after
notifying all persons known to claim an interest in the goods.  The
notification must include a statement of the amount due, the nature of the
proposed sale, and the time and place of any public sale.  The fact that a
better price could have been obtained by a sale at a different time or in a
method different from that selected by the warehouse is not of itself
sufficient to establish that the sale was not made in a commercially
reasonable manner.  The warehouse sells in a commercially reasonable manner if
the warehouse sells the goods in the usual manner in any recognized market
therefor, sells at the price current in that market at the time of the sale,
or otherwise sells in conformity with commercially reasonable practices among
dealers in the type of goods sold.  A sale of more goods than apparently
necessary to be offered to ensure satisfaction of the obligation is not
commercially reasonable, except in cases covered by the preceding sentence.
(2)  A warehouse may enforce its lien on goods, other than goods stored by a
merchant in the course of its business, only if the following requirements are
satisfied:
(a)  All persons known to claim an interest in the goods must be notified.
(b)  The notification must include an itemized statement of the claim, a
description of the goods subject to the lien, a demand for payment within a
specified time not less than ten days after receipt of the notification, and a
conspicuous statement that unless the claim is paid within that time the goods
will be advertised for sale and sold by auction at a specified time and place.
(c)  The sale must conform to the terms of the notification.
(d)  The sale must be held at the nearest suitable place to where the goods
are held or stored.
(e)  After the expiration of the time given in the notification, an
advertisement of the sale must be published once a week for two weeks
consecutively in a newspaper of general circulation where the sale is to be
held.  The advertisement must include a description of the goods, the name of
the person on whose account the goods are being held, and the time and place
of the sale.  The sale must take place at least 15 days after the first
publication.  If there is no newspaper of general circulation where the sale
is to be held, the advertisement must be posted at least ten days before the
sale in not fewer than six conspicuous places in the neighborhood of the
proposed sale.
(3)  Before any sale pursuant to this section, any person claiming a right in
the goods may pay the amount necessary to satisfy the lien and the reasonable
expenses incurred in complying with this section.  In that event, the goods
may not be sold but must be retained by the warehouse subject to the terms of
the receipt and this chapter.
(4)  A warehouse may buy at any public sale held pursuant to this section.
(5)  A purchaser in good faith of goods sold to enforce a warehouse's lien
takes the goods free of any rights of persons against which the lien was
valid, despite the warehouse's noncompliance with this section.
(6)  A warehouse may satisfy its lien from the proceeds of any sale pursuant
to this section but shall hold the balance, if any, for delivery on demand to
any person to which the warehouse would have been bound to deliver the goods.
(7)  The rights provided by this section are in addition to all other rights
allowed by law to a creditor against a debtor.
(8)  If a lien is on goods stored by a merchant in the course of its business,
the lien may be enforced in accordance with Subsection (1) or (2).
(9)  A warehouse is liable for damages caused by failure to comply with the
requirements for sale under this section and, in case of willful violation, is
liable for conversion.
