67-19c-101.   Department award program.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Department" means the Department of Administrative Services, the Department of Agriculture and Food, the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Heritage and Arts, the Department of Corrections, the Department of Workforce Services, the Department of Environmental Quality, the Department of Financial Institutions, the Department of Health, the Department of Human Resource Management, the Department of Human Services, the Insurance Department, the National Guard, the Department of Natural Resources, the Department of Public Safety, the Public Service Commission, the Labor Commission, the State Board of Education, the State Board of Regents, the State Tax Commission, the Department of Technology Services, and the Department of Transportation.

(b)  "Department head" means the individual or body of individuals in whom the ultimate legal authority of the department is vested by law.

(2)  There is created a department awards program to award an outstanding employee in each department of state government.

(3) (a)  By April 1 of each year, each department head shall solicit nominations for outstanding employee of the year for his department from the employees in his department.

(b)  By July 1 of each year, the department head shall:

(i)  select a person from the department to receive the outstanding employee of the year award using the criteria established in Subsection (3)(c); and

(ii)  announce the recipient of the award to his employees.

(c)  Department heads shall make the award to a person who demonstrates:

(i)  extraordinary competence in performing his function;

(ii)  creativity in identifying problems and devising workable, cost-effective solutions to them;

(iii)  excellent relationships with the public and other employees;

(iv)  a commitment to serving the public as the client; and

(v)  a commitment to economy and efficiency in government.

(4) (a)  The Department of Human Resource Management shall divide any appropriation for outstanding department employee awards that it receives from the Legislature equally among the departments.

(b)  If the department receives money from the Department of Human Resource Management or if the department budget allows, the department head shall provide the employee with a bonus, a plaque, or some other suitable acknowledgement of the award.

(5) (a)  The department head may name the award after an exemplary present or former employee of the department.

(b)  A department head may not name the award for himself or for any relative as defined in Section 52-3-1.

(c)  Any awards or award programs existing in any department as of May 3, 1993, shall be modified to conform to the requirements of this section.



Amended by Chapter 212, 2012 General Session

