59-13-201.   Rate -- Tax basis -- Exemptions -- Revenue deposited in the
Transportation Fund -- Restricted account for boating uses -- Refunds --
Reduction of tax in limited circumstances.
(1) (a)  Subject to the provisions of this section, a tax is imposed at the
rate of 24-1/2 cents per gallon upon all motor fuel that is sold, used, or
received for sale or used in this state.
(b)  In lieu of the tax imposed under Subsection (1)(a) and subject to the
provisions of this section, a tax is imposed at the rate of 3/19 of the rate
imposed under Subsection (1)(a), rounded up to the nearest penny, upon all
motor fuels that meet the definition of clean fuel in Section 59-13-102 and
are sold, used, or received for sale or use in this state.
(2)  Any increase or decrease in tax rate applies to motor fuel that is
imported to the state or sold at refineries in the state on or after the
effective date of the rate change.
(3) (a)  No motor fuel tax is imposed upon:
(i)  motor fuel that is brought into and sold in this state in original
packages as purely interstate commerce sales;
(ii)  motor fuel that is exported from this state if proof of actual
exportation on forms prescribed by the commission is made within 180 days
after exportation;
(iii)  motor fuel or components of motor fuel that is sold and used in this
state and distilled from coal, oil shale, rock asphalt, bituminous sand, or
solid hydrocarbons located in this state; or
(iv)  motor fuel that is sold to the United States government, this state, or
the political subdivisions of this state.
(b)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the commission shall make rules governing the procedures for
administering the tax exemption provided under Subsection (3)(a)(iv).
(4)  The commission may either collect no tax on motor fuel exported from the
state or, upon application, refund the tax paid.
(5) (a)  All revenue received by the commission under this part shall be
deposited daily with the state treasurer and credited to the Transportation
Fund.
(b)  An appropriation from the Transportation Fund shall be made to the
commission to cover expenses incurred in the administration and enforcement of
this part and the collection of the motor fuel tax.
(6) (a)  The commission shall determine what amount of motor fuel tax revenue
is received from the sale or use of motor fuel used in motorboats registered
under the provisions of the State Boating Act, and this amount shall be
deposited in a restricted revenue account in the General Fund of the state.
(b)  The funds from this account shall be used for the construction,
improvement, operation, and maintenance of state-owned boating facilities and
for the payment of the costs and expenses of the Division of Parks and
Recreation in administering and enforcing the State Boating Act.
(7) (a)  The United States government or any of its instrumentalities, this
state, or a political subdivision of this state that has purchased motor fuel
from a licensed distributor or from a retail dealer of motor fuel and has paid
the tax on the motor fuel as provided in this section is entitled to a refund
of the tax and may file with the commission for a quarterly refund.
(b)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the commission shall make rules governing the application and refund
provided for in Subsection (7)(a).
(8) (a)  The commission shall refund annually into the Off-Highway Vehicle
Account in the General Fund an amount equal to the lesser of the following:
(i)  .5% of the motor fuel tax revenues collected under this section; or
(ii)  $1,050,000.
(b)  This amount shall be used as provided in Section 41-22-19.
(c)  This Subsection (8) sunsets on July 1, 2010.
(9) (a)  Beginning on April 1, 2001, a tax imposed under this section on motor
fuel that is sold, used, or received for sale or use in this state is reduced
to the extent provided in Subsection (9)(b) if:
(i)  a tax imposed on the basis of the sale, use, or receipt for sale or use
of the motor fuel is paid to the Navajo Nation;
(ii)  the tax described in Subsection (9)(a)(i) is imposed without regard to
whether or not the person required to pay the tax is an enrolled member of the
Navajo Nation; and
(iii)  the commission and the Navajo Nation execute and maintain an agreement
as provided in this Subsection (9) for the administration of the reduction of
tax.
(b) (i)  If but for Subsection (9)(a) the motor fuel is subject to a tax
imposed by this section:
(A)  the state shall be paid the difference described in Subsection (9)(b)(ii)
if that difference is greater than $0; and
(B)  a person may not require the state to provide a refund, a credit, or
similar tax relief if the difference described in Subsection (9)(b)(ii) is
less than or equal to $0.
(ii)  The difference described in Subsection (9)(b)(i) is equal to the
difference between:
(A)  the amount of tax imposed on the motor fuel by this section; less
(B)  the tax imposed and collected by the Navajo Nation on the motor fuel.
(c)  For purposes of Subsections (9)(a) and (b), the tax paid to the Navajo
Nation under a tax imposed by the Navajo Nation on the basis of the sale, use,
or receipt for sale or use of motor fuel does not include any interest or
penalties a taxpayer may be required to pay to the Navajo Nation.
(d)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the commission shall make rules governing the procedures for
administering the reduction of tax provided under this Subsection (9).
(e)  The agreement required under Subsection (9)(a):
(i)  may not:
(A)  authorize the state to impose a tax in addition to a tax imposed under
this chapter;
(B)  provide a reduction of taxes greater than or different from the reduction
described in this Subsection (9); or
(C)  affect the power of the state to establish rates of taxation;
(ii)  shall:
(A)  be in writing;
(B)  be signed by:
(I)  the chair of the commission or the chair's designee; and
(II)  a person designated by the Navajo Nation that may bind the Navajo
Nation;
(C)  be conditioned on obtaining any approval required by federal law;
(D)  state the effective date of the agreement; and
(E)  state any accommodation the Navajo Nation makes related to the
construction and maintenance of state highways and other infrastructure within
the Utah portion of the Navajo Nation; and
(iii)  may:
(A)  notwithstanding Section 59-1-403, authorize the commission to disclose to
the Navajo Nation information that is:
(I)  contained in a document filed with the commission; and
(II)  related to the tax imposed under this section;
(B)  provide for maintaining records by the commission or the Navajo Nation;
or
(C)  provide for inspections or audits of distributors, carriers, or retailers
located or doing business within the Utah portion of the Navajo Nation.
(f) (i)  If, on or after April 1, 2001, the Navajo Nation changes the tax rate
of a tax imposed on motor fuel, any change in the reduction of taxes under
this Subsection (9) as a result of the change in the tax rate is not effective
until the first day of the calendar quarter after a 60-day period beginning on
the date the commission receives notice:
(A)  from the Navajo Nation; and
(B)  meeting the requirements of Subsection (9)(f)(ii).
(ii)  The notice described in Subsection (9)(f)(i) shall state:
(A)  that the Navajo Nation has changed or will change the tax rate of a tax
imposed on motor fuel;
(B)  the effective date of the rate change of the tax described in Subsection
(9)(f)(ii)(A); and
(C)  the new rate of the tax described in Subsection (9)(f)(ii)(A).
(g)  If the agreement required by Subsection (9)(a) terminates, a reduction of
tax is not permitted under this Subsection (9) beginning on the first day of
the calendar quarter after a 30-day period beginning on the day the agreement
terminates.
(h)  If there is a conflict between this Subsection (9) and the agreement
required by Subsection (9)(a), this Subsection (9) governs.
