59-13-204.   Distributors liable for tax -- Computations -- Exceptions -- Assumption of liability statements -- Motor fuel received -- Tax to be added to price of motor fuel.

(1)  Distributors licensed under this part who receive motor fuel are liable for the tax as provided by this part, and shall report the receipt of the motor fuel to the commission and pay the tax as prescribed.

(2) (a)  Distributors shall compute the tax on the total taxable amount of motor fuel produced, purchased, received, imported, or refined in this state, and all distributors shipping motor fuels into this state shall compute the tax on the total taxable amount of motor fuels received for sale or use in this state.

(b)  All motor fuel distributed by any distributor to the distributor's branches within this state is considered to be sold at the time of this distribution and is subject to this part as if actually sold.

(c)  Distributors licensed under this part may sell motor fuel to other licensed distributors without the payment or collection of the tax, if the purchasing distributor furnishes the seller with an assumption of liability statement indicating the purchasing distributor is a licensed and bonded Utah motor fuel distributor and will assume the Utah motor fuel tax responsibility on all motor fuel purchased from the seller.  The seller shall report each sale to the commission in a monthly report of sales as provided under Section 59-13-206.

(3)  If motor fuels have been purchased outside of this state and brought into this state in original packages from a distributor for the use of the consumer, then the tax shall be imposed when the motor fuel is received.

(4) (a)  Every distributor and retail dealer of motor fuels shall add the amount of the taxes levied and assessed by this part to the price of the motor fuels.

(b)  This Subsection (4) in no way affects the method of the collection of the taxes as specified in this part.

(c)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(a), if the Ute tribe may receive a refund under Section 59-13-201.5, the Ute tribe is not required to add the amount of the taxes levied and assessed by this part to the price of motor fuel that is purchased:

(i)  by a Ute tribal member; and

(ii)  at a retail station:

(A)  wholly owned by the Ute tribe; and

(B)  located on Ute trust land.

(d)  For purposes of Subsection (4)(a), the amount of taxes levied and assessed by this part do not include the amount of the reduction of tax under Subsection 59-13-201(9).

