31A-17-503.   Actuarial opinion of reserves.
(1)  This section becomes operative on December 31, 1993.
(2)  General: Every life insurance company doing business in this state shall
annually submit the opinion of a qualified actuary as to whether the reserves
and related actuarial items held in support of the policies and contracts
specified by the commissioner by rule are computed appropriately, are based on
assumptions which satisfy contractual provisions, are consistent with prior
reported amounts, and comply with applicable laws of this state. The
commissioner by rule shall define the specifics of this opinion and add any
other items considered to be necessary to its scope.
(3)  Actuarial analysis of reserves and assets supporting reserves:
(a)  Every life insurance company, except as exempted by or pursuant to rule,
shall also annually include in the opinion required by Subsection (2), an
opinion of the same qualified actuary as to whether the reserves and related
actuarial items held in support of the policies and contracts specified by the
commissioner by rule, when considered in light of the assets held by the
company with respect to the reserves and related actuarial items, including
but not limited to the investment earnings on the assets and the
considerations anticipated to be received and retained under the policies and
contracts, make adequate provision for the company's obligations under the
policies and contracts, including but not limited to the benefits under the
expenses associated with the policies and contracts.
(b)  The commissioner may provide by rule for a transition period for
establishing any higher reserves which the qualified actuary may consider
necessary in order to render the opinion required by this section.
(4)  Requirement for opinion under Subsection (3): Each opinion required by
Subsection (3) shall be governed by the following provisions:
(a)  A memorandum, in form and substance acceptable to the commissioner as
specified by rule, shall be prepared to support each actuarial opinion.
(b)  If the insurance company fails to provide a supporting memorandum at the
request of the commissioner within a period specified by rule or the
commissioner determines that the supporting memorandum provided by the
insurance company fails to meet the standards prescribed by the rule or is
otherwise unacceptable to the commissioner, the commissioner may engage a
qualified actuary at the expense of the company to review the opinion and the
basis for the opinion and prepare such supporting memorandum as is required by
the commissioner.
(5)  Requirement for all opinions: Every opinion shall be governed by the
following provisions:
(a)  The opinion shall be submitted with the annual statement reflecting the
valuation of the reserve liabilities for each year ending on or after December
31, 1993.
(b)  The opinion shall apply to all business in force including individual and
group health insurance plans, in form and substance acceptable to the
commissioner as specified by rule.
(c)  The opinion shall be based on standards adopted from time to time by the
Actuarial Standards Board and on such additional standards as the commissioner
may by rule prescribe.
(d)  In the case of an opinion required to be submitted by a foreign or alien
company, the commissioner may accept the opinion filed by that company with
the insurance supervisory official of another state if the commissioner
determines that the opinion reasonably meets the requirements applicable to a
company domiciled in this state.
(e)  For the purposes of this section, "qualified actuary" means a member in
good standing of the American Academy of Actuaries who meets the requirements
set forth by department rule.
(f)  Except in cases of fraud or willful misconduct, the qualified actuary is
not liable for damages to any person, other than the insurance company and the
commissioner, for any act, error, omission, decision, or conduct with respect
to the actuary's opinion.
(g)  Disciplinary action by the commissioner against the company or the
qualified actuary shall be defined in rules by the commissioner.
(h)  Any memorandum in support of the opinion, and any other material provided
by the company to the commissioner in connection therewith, are considered
protected records under Section 63G-2-305 and may not be made public and are
not subject to subpoena under Subsection 63G-2-202(7), other than for the
purpose of defending an action seeking damages from any person by reason of
any action required by this section or rules promulgated under this section.
However, the memorandum or other material may otherwise be released by the
commissioner (i) with the written consent of the company or (ii) to the
American Academy of Actuaries upon request stating that the memorandum or
other material is required for the purpose of professional disciplinary
proceedings and setting forth procedures satisfactory to the commissioner for
preserving the confidentiality of the memorandum or other material. Once any
portion of the confidential memorandum is cited in its marketing or is cited
before any governmental agency other than the department or is released to the
news media, all portions of the memorandum are no longer confidential.
