31A-17-601.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Adjusted RBC report" means an RBC report that has been adjusted by the
commissioner in accordance with Subsection 31A-17-602(5).
(2)  "Corrective order" means an order issued by the commissioner specifying
corrective action that the commissioner determines is required.
(3)  "Health organization" means:
(a)  an entity that is authorized under Chapter 7 or 8; and
(b)  that is:
(i)  a health maintenance organization;
(ii)  a limited health service organization;
(iii)  a dental or vision plan;
(iv)  a hospital, medical, and dental indemnity or service corporation; or
(v)  other managed care organization.
(4)  "Life or accident and health insurer" means:
(a)  an insurance company licensed to write life insurance, disability
insurance, or both; or
(b)  a licensed property casualty insurer writing only disability insurance.
(5)  "Property and casualty insurer" means any insurance company licensed to
write lines of insurance other than life but does not include a monoline
mortgage guaranty insurer, financial guaranty insurer, or title insurer.
(6)  "RBC" means risk-based capital.
(7)  "RBC instructions" means the RBC report including risk-based capital
instructions adopted by the department by rule.
(8)  "RBC level" means an insurer's or health organization's authorized
control level RBC, company action level RBC, mandatory control level RBC, or
regulatory action level RBC.
(a)  "Authorized control level RBC" means the number determined under the
risk-based capital formula in accordance with the RBC instructions;
(b)  "Company action level RBC" means the product of 2.0 and its authorized
control level RBC;
(c)  "Mandatory control level RBC" means the product of .70 and the authorized
control level RBC; and
(d)  "Regulatory action level RBC" means the product of 1.5 and its authorized
control level RBC.
(9) (a)  "RBC plan" means a comprehensive financial plan containing the
elements specified in Subsection 31A-17-603(2).
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (9)(a), the plan is a "revised RBC plan" if:
(i)  the commissioner rejects the RBC plan; and
(ii)  the plan is revised by the insurer or health organization, with or
without the commissioner's recommendation.
(10)  "RBC report" means the report required in Section 31A-17-602.
