9-6-405.   Procedures, guidelines, and rules.
(1)  The division shall follow these guidelines in administering the program:
(a)  Works of art shall be acquired under the program for use only with
respect to those buildings or facilities that the division determines have
significant public use or access, especially where the design and technical
construction of the building or facility lend themselves to works of art.  All
funds set aside and administered by the program from appropriations for any
state building or facility of which any part is obtained from the issuance of
bonds shall be used only to acquire works of art that will be placed in or at,
and remain a part of, that building or facility, to the extent necessary to
preserve the federal income tax exemption otherwise allowed for interest paid
on the bonds.
(b)  The goal of the division in administering the program is to fairly
distribute works of art throughout the various social, economic, and
geographic communities of the state.
(c)  The division shall give first preference to Utah artists, and to artists
from other states which have similar percent-for-art programs and demonstrate
a reciprocal preference for Utah artists.
(d)  The division shall involve the director of the Division of Facilities
Construction and Management, or the director's designee, and the project
architect in the process of screening or selecting works of art or artists to
create works of art for each project and shall involve in that process
representatives from the project's principal user or contracting agency, the
community in which the project is located, and the art profession.  The
project's principal user or contracting agency shall have representation at
least equal to any other entity on the selection committee, as designated by
the project's president or director.  Any selection and placement of art shall
be by a majority decision of the user agency representatives on the committee
and a majority decision of the entire committee.  The selection and placement
shall be approved by the president or director of the principal user.
(e)  Any relocation of art placed under this program shall be done with the
participation from the division and the Division of Facilities Construction
and Management and with approval from the president or director of the
principal user.
(f)  The costs of administering the program and conserving and maintaining all
works of art placed under the program are limited to 15% of the funds
deposited in the Utah Percent-for-Art Account.
(2)  The division shall adopt procedures, guidelines, and rules as necessary
to implement this chapter and administer the program.
