9-6-505.   Eligibility requirements of qualifying arts organizations --
Allocation limitations -- Matching requirements.
(1)  Any qualifying organization may apply to receive moneys from the state
fund to be deposited in an endowment fund it has created under Subsection
9-6-503 (1):
(a)  if it has received a grant from the board during one of the three years
immediately before making application for state fund moneys under this
subsection; or
(b)  upon approval by the board if it has not received a grant from the board
within the past three years.
(2) (a)  The maximum amount that may be allocated to each qualifying
organization from the state fund shall be determined by the board by
calculating the average cash income of the qualifying organization during the
past three fiscal years as contained in the qualifying organization's final
reports on file with the board.  The board shall notify each qualifying
organization of the maximum amount of moneys from the state fund for which it
qualifies.
(b)  The minimum amount that may be allocated to each qualifying organization
from the state fund is $2,500.
(c)  If the maximum amount for which the organization qualifies is less than
$2,500, the organization may still apply for $2,500.
(3)  After the board determines that a qualifying organization is eligible to
receive moneys from the state fund and before any money is allocated to the
qualifying organization from the state fund, the qualifying organization shall
match the amount qualified for by moneys raised and designated exclusively for
that purpose.  State moneys, in-kind contributions, and preexisting endowment
gifts may not be used to match moneys from the state fund.
(4)  Endowment match moneys shall be based on a sliding scale as follows:
(a)  any amount requested not exceeding $100,000 shall be matched one-to-one;
(b)  any additional amount requested that makes the aggregate amount requested
exceed $100,000 but not exceed $500,000 shall be matched two-to-one; and
(c)  any additional amount requested that makes the aggregate amount requested
exceed $500,000 shall be matched three-to-one.
(5) (a)  Qualifying organizations shall raise the matching amount within three
years after applying for moneys from the state fund by a date determined by
the board.
(b)  Moneys from the state fund shall be released to the qualifying
organization only upon verification by the board that the matching money has
been received on or before the date determined under Subsection (a).
Verification of matching funds shall be made by a certified public accountant.
(c)  Moneys from the state fund shall be released to qualifying organizations
with professional endowment management in increments not less than $20,000 as
audited confirmation of matching funds is received by the board.
(d)  Moneys from the state fund shall be granted to each qualifying
organization on the basis of the matching funds it has raised by the date
determined under Subsection (a).
