9-6-704.   State-Owned Art Collections Inventory Program Committee -- Membership -- Chair -- Expenses -- Duties.

(1)  There is created within the division the State-Owned Art Collections Inventory Committee.

(2)  The committee consists of seven members who shall be experts in one or more aspect of the program as follows:

(a)  the director of the Utah Museum of Fine Arts, or a designee;

(b)  the director of the Utah Arts Council, or a designee;

(c)  the director of the Division of Risk Management, or a designee;

(d)  the director of the Utah Academic Library Consortium, or a designee;

(e)  the director of the Utah State Archives and Records Service, or a designee;

(f)  the director of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management; and

(g)  a member of the public with expertise in the area of web site or database design and administration appointed by the other members of the committee to serve at the pleasure of the committee.

(3) (a)  The committee shall annually elect a chairperson from its membership.

(b) (i)  The committee shall hold meetings as needed to carry out its duties.

(ii)  A meeting may be held on the call of the chair or a majority of the committee members.

(c)  Four committee members are necessary to constitute a quorum at any meeting and, if a quorum exists, the action of a majority of members present shall be the action of the committee.

(4)  A committee member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(5)  The division shall provide staff support to the committee.

(6)  The funding of the committee shall be a separate line item to the division in the annual appropriations act.

(7)  The committee shall:

(a)  advise the division on the design and implementation of the inventory study program;

(b)  monitor, advise, and make recommendations to the division to promote and ensure the efficient and effective plan for the inventory study program; and

(c)  study promoting collaborative efforts to develop public awareness, public school curriculum, and teacher training materials on the provisions of the program.

