26-35a-104.   Collection, remittance, and payment of nursing care facilities
assessment.
(1) (a)  Beginning July 1, 2004, an assessment is imposed upon each nursing
care facility in the amount designated in Subsection (1)(c).
(b) (i)  The department shall establish by rule, a uniform rate per non-
Medicare patient day that may not exceed 6% of the total gross revenue for
services provided to patients of all nursing care facilities licensed in this
state.
(ii)  For purposes of Subsection (1)(b)(i), total revenue does not include
charitable contribution received by a nursing care facility.
(c)  The department shall calculate the assessment imposed under Subsection
(1)(a) by multiplying the total number of patient days of care provided to
non-Medicare patients by the nursing care facility, as provided to the
department pursuant to Subsection (3)(a), by the uniform rate established by
the department pursuant to Subsection (1)(b).
(2) (a)  The assessment imposed by this chapter is due and payable on a
monthly basis on or before the last day of the month next succeeding each
monthly period.
(b)  The collecting agent for this assessment shall be the department which is
vested with the administration and enforcement of this chapter, including the
right to audit records of a nursing care facility related to patient days of
care for the facility.
(c)  The department shall forward proceeds from the assessment imposed by this
chapter to the state treasurer for deposit in the restricted account as
specified in Section 26-35a-106.
(3)  Each nursing care facility shall, on or before the end of the month next
succeeding each calendar monthly period, file with the department:
(a)  a report which includes:
(i)  the total number of patient days of care the facility provided to non-
Medicare patients during the preceding month;
(ii)  the total gross revenue the facility earned as compensation for services
provided to patients during the preceding month; and
(iii)  any other information required by the department; and
(b)  a return for the monthly period, and shall remit with the return the
assessment required by this chapter to be paid for the period covered by the
return.
(4)  Each return shall contain information and be in the form the department
prescribes by rule.
(5)  The assessment as computed in the return is an allowable cost for
Medicaid reimbursement purposes.
(6)  The department may by rule, extend the time for making returns and paying
the assessment.
(7)  Each nursing care facility that fails to pay any assessment required to
be paid to the state, within the time required by this chapter, or that fails
to file a return as required by this chapter, shall pay, in addition to the
assessment, penalties and interest as provided in Section 26-35a-105.
