72-4-302.   Utah State Scenic Byway Committee -- Creation -- Membership -- Meetings -- Expenses.

(1)  There is created the Utah State Scenic Byway Committee.

(2) (a)  The committee shall consist of the following 15 members:

(i)  a representative from each of the following entities appointed by the governor:

(A)  the Governor's Office of Economic Development;

(B)  the Utah Department of Transportation;

(C)  the Department of Heritage and Arts;

(D)  the Division of State Parks and Recreation;

(E)  the Federal Highway Administration;

(F)  the National Park Service;

(G)  the National Forest Service; and

(H)  the Bureau of Land Management;

(ii)  one local government tourism representative appointed by the governor;

(iii)  a representative from the private business sector appointed by the governor;

(iv)  three local elected officials from a county, city, or town within the state appointed by the governor;

(v)  a member from the House of Representatives appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives; and

(vi)  a member from the Senate appointed by the president of the Senate.

(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(c), the members appointed in this Subsection (2) shall be appointed for a four-year term of office.

(c)  The governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment for appointments made under Subsection (2)(a)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.

(d) (i)  The appointments made under Subsections (2)(a)(v) and (vi) by the speaker of the House and the president of the Senate may not be from the same political party.

(ii)  The speaker of the House and the president of the Senate shall alternate the appointments made under Subsections (2)(a)(v) and(vi) as follows:

(A)  if the speaker appoints a member under Subsection (2)(a)(v), the next appointment made by the speaker following the expiration of the existing member's four-year term of office shall be from a different political party; and

(B)  if the president appoints a member under Subsection (2)(a)(vi), the next appointment made by the president following the expiration of the existing member's four-year term of office shall be from a different political party.

(3) (a)  The representative from the Governor's Office of Economic Development shall chair the committee.

(b)  The members appointed under Subsections (2)(a)(i)(E) through (H) serve as nonvoting, ex officio members of the committee.

(4)  The Governor's Office of Economic Development and the department shall provide staff support to the committee.

(5) (a)  The chair may call a meeting of the committee only with the concurrence of the department.

(b)  A majority of the voting members of the committee constitute a quorum.

(c)  Action by a majority vote of a quorum of the committee constitutes action by the committee.

(6)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 212, 2012 General Session

