72-4-303.   Powers and duties of the Utah State Scenic Byway Committee --
Requirements for designation -- Segmentation -- Rulemaking authority --
Designation on state maps -- Outdoor advertising.
(1)  The committee shall have the responsibility to:
(a)  administer a coordinated scenic byway program within the state that:
(i)  preserves and protects the intrinsic qualities described in Subsection
(1)(b) unique to scenic byways;
(ii)  enhances recreation; and
(iii)  promotes economic development through tourism and education;
(b)  ensure that a highway nominated for a scenic byway designation possesses
at least one of the following six intrinsic qualities:
(i)  scenic quality;
(ii)  natural quality;
(iii)  historic quality;
(iv)  cultural quality;
(v)  archaeological quality; or
(vi)  recreational quality;
(c)  designate highways as state scenic byways from nominated highways within
the state if the committee determines that the highway possesses the criteria
for a state scenic byway; and
(d)  remove the designation of a highway as a scenic byway if the committee
determines that the highway no longer meets the criteria under which it was
designated.
(2) (a)  A highway located within a county, city, or town within this state
may not be included as part of a designation or nomination as a state scenic
byway, National Scenic Byway, or All-American Road unless the nomination or
designation is sanctioned in writing by an official action of the legislative
body of each county, city, or town through which the proposed state scenic
byway, National Scenic Byway, or All-American Road passes.
(b)  If a county, city, or town does not give approval as required under
Subsection (2)(a), then the portion of the highway located within the
boundaries of the county, city, or town may not be included as part of any
state scenic byway designation or nomination as a National Scenic Byway or
All-American Road.
(3) (a)  A state scenic byway, National Scenic Byway, or All-American Road may
be segmented by the legislative body of the county, city, or town where the
segmentation is to occur if:
(i)  a person or another entity, with the consent of any landowners affected
by the segmentation, has requested the segmentation of a portion of a road or
highway; and
(ii)  the legislative body of the county, city, or town reviews the
segmentation proposed under Subsection (3)(a)(i).
(b)  The legislative body of a county, city, or town shall render a decision
on a segmentation request under Subsection (3)(a) within 60 days and may grant
segmentation to the person or entity if the property is a non-scenic area.
(c) (i)  If the legislative body of a county, city, or town denies the request
to segment the state scenic byway, National Scenic Byway, or All-American Road
under Subsection (3)(a) upon the request of a person or another entity, with
the consent of any landowners affected by the segmentation, that person or
entity may appeal the denial of the request to the committee.
(ii)  The committee shall hear and answer an appeal of the denial of a
segmentation request within 60 days of a request submitted in accordance with
Subsection (3)(c)(i).
(iii)  If the committee does not render a decision on an appeal in accordance
with Subsection (3)(c)(ii), the segmentation request shall be granted if the
property is a non-scenic area.
(4)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the department shall make rules in consultation with the committee:
(a)  for the administration of a scenic byway program;
(b)  establishing the criteria that a highway shall possess to be designated
as a scenic byway, including the criteria described in Subsection (1)(b);
(c)  establishing the process for nominating a highway to be designated as a
state scenic byway;
(d)  specifying the process for hearings to be conducted in the area of
proposed designation prior to the highway being designated as a scenic byway;
(e)  identifying the highways within the state designated as scenic byways;
and
(f)  establishing the process and criteria for removing the designation of a
highway as a scenic byway.
(5)  The department shall designate scenic byway routes on future state
highway maps.
(6)  A highway within the state designated as a scenic byway is subject to
federal outdoor advertising regulations in accordance with 23 U.S.C. Sec. 131.
