63J-2-202.   Disposition of revenues -- Reporting of balances in dedicated credits and fixed collections.

(1) (a)  Each agency shall include in its annual budget request estimates of dedicated credits revenues and fixed collections revenues that are identified by, collected for, or set by the agency.

(b)  If the Legislature or the Division of Finance establishes a new revenue type by law, the agency shall include that new revenue type in its budget request for the next fiscal year.

(c) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(c)(ii), if any agency fails to include the estimates of a revenue type in its annual budget request, the Division of Finance shall deposit the money collected in that revenue type into the General Fund or other appropriate fund as free or restricted revenue.

(ii)  The Division of Finance may not deposit the money collected from a revenue type not included in an agency's annual budget request into the General Fund or other appropriate fund if the agency did not include the estimates of the revenue type in its annual budget request because the Legislature had not yet established or authorized the new revenue type by law.

(2) (a) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), each agency that receives dedicated credits and fixed collections revenues greater than the amount appropriated to them by the Legislature in the annual appropriations act may expend the excess up to 25% of the amount appropriated if the expenditure is authorized by an amended work program approved as provided in Section 63J-1-209.  However, except for money deposited as dedicated credits in the Illegal Drug Stamp Tax Fund under Section 59-19-105 or line items covering tuition and federal vocational funds at institutions of higher learning, any expenditure of dedicated credits in excess of amounts appropriated by the Legislature may not be used to permanently increase personnel within the agency unless approved by the Legislature.

(ii)  The Division of Finance shall deposit the balance of that excess into the General Fund or other appropriate fund as free or restricted revenue.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), when an agency's dedicated credits and fixed collections revenues represent over 90% of the budget of the program for which they are collected, the agency may expend 100% of the excess of the amount appropriated if the expenditure is authorized by an amended work program approved as provided in Section 63J-1-209.

(3)  Each agency that receives dedicated credits or fixed collections shall report, to the Division of Finance, any balances remaining in those funds at the conclusion of each fiscal year.

