53-5b-102.   Legal considerations.
In reviewing any matter covered by this chapter, a court shall consider the
following:
(1)  The Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution guarantees to the
state and its people all powers not granted to the federal government
elsewhere in the Constitution and reserves to the state and people of Utah
certain powers as they were understood at the time that Utah was admitted to
statehood.
(2)  The guarantee of powers to the state and its people under the Tenth
Amendment is a matter of contract between the state and people of Utah and the
United States as of the time of statehood.
(3)  The Ninth Amendment to the United States Constitution guarantees to the
people rights not granted in the Constitution and reserves to the people of
Utah certain rights as they were understood at the time that Utah was admitted
to statehood.
(4)  The guarantee of rights to the people under the Ninth Amendment is a
matter of contract between the state and people of Utah and the United States
as of the time of statehood.
(5)  The regulation of intrastate commerce is vested in the state under the
Ninth and Tenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.
(6)  The Second Amendment to the United States Constitution reserves to the
people the right to keep and bear arms as that right was understood at the
time that Utah was admitted to statehood, and the guarantee of the right is a
matter of contract between the state and people of Utah and the United States
as of the time of statehood.
(7)  The Utah Constitution clearly secures to Utah citizens, and prohibits
government interference with, the right of individual Utah citizens to keep
and bear arms.
(8)  A personal firearm, a firearm action or receiver, a firearm accessory, or
ammunition that is manufactured commercially or privately in the state to be
used or sold within the state is not subject to federal law or federal
regulation, including registration, under the authority of congress to
regulate interstate commerce.
(9)  The Legislature declares that a firearm, a firearm action or receiver, a
firearm accessory, and ammunition described in Subsection (8) does not travel
in interstate commerce.
(10)  The importation into the state of generic and insignificant parts and
those parts' incorporation into a firearm, a firearm action or receiver, a
firearm accessory, or ammunition manufactured in the state does not subject
the firearm, firearm accessory, firearm action or receiver, or ammunition to
federal law or regulation.
(11)  Basic materials, including unmachined steel and unshaped wood, are not
firearms, firearm actions or receivers, firearms accessories, or ammunition.
(12)  Trade in basic materials is not subject to congressional authority to
regulate firearms, firearm actions or receivers, firearms accessories, and
ammunition as if the basic materials were actually firearms, firearm actions
or receivers, firearms accessories, or ammunition.
(13)  Congress's authority to regulate interstate commerce in basic materials
does not include authority to regulate firearms, firearm actions or receivers,
firearms accessories, and ammunition made in the state from basic materials.
(14)  The attachment or use of firearms accessories in conjunction with a
firearm manufactured in the state does not subject the firearm to federal
regulation under Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce, without
regard to whether the firearms accessories are themselves subject to federal
regulation.
