26-46-103.   Advisory committee -- Membership -- Compensation -- Duties.
(1)  There is created the Utah Health Care Workforce Financial Assistance
Program Advisory Committee consisting of the following 13 members appointed by
the executive director, eight of whom shall be residents of rural communities:
(a)  one rural representative of Utah Hospitals and Health Systems, nominated
by the association;
(b)  two rural representatives of the Utah Medical Association, nominated by
the association;
(c)  one representative of the Utah Academy of Physician Assistants, nominated
by the association;
(d)  one representative of the Association for Utah Community Health,
nominated by the association;
(e)  one representative of the Utah Dental Association, nominated by the
association;
(f)  one representative of mental health therapists, selected from nominees
submitted by mental health therapist professional associations;
(g)  one representative of the Association of Local Health Officers, nominated
by the association;
(h)  one representative of the low-income advocacy community, nominated by the
Utah Human Services Coalition;
(i)  one nursing program faculty member, nominated by the Statewide Deans and
Directors Committee;
(j)  one administrator of a long-term care facility, nominated by the Utah
Health Care Association;
(k)  one nursing administrator, nominated by the Utah Nurses Association; and
(l)  one geriatric professional who is:
(i)  determined by the department to have adequate advanced training in
geriatrics to prepare the person to provide specialized geriatric care within
the scope of the person's profession; and
(ii)  nominated by a professional association for the profession of which the
person is a member.
(2)  An appointment to the committee shall be for a four-year term unless the
member is appointed to complete an unexpired term.  The executive director may
also adjust the length of term at the time of appointment or reappointment so
that approximately 1/2 the committee is appointed every two years.  The
executive director shall annually appoint a committee chair from among the
members of the committee.
(3)  The committee shall meet at the call of the chair, at least three members
of the committee, or the executive director, but no less frequently than once
each calendar year.
(4)  A majority of the members of the committee constitutes a quorum.  The
action of a majority of a quorum constitutes the action of the committee.
(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(6)  The committee shall:
(a)  make recommendations to the department for the development and
modification of rules to administer the Utah Health Care Workforce Financial
Assistance Program; and
(b)  advise the department on the development of a needs assessment tool for
identifying underserved areas.
(7)  As funding permits, the department shall provide staff and other
administrative support to the committee.
