35A-8-802.   Legislative policy and purpose.

(1) (a) The Legislature declares that it is the policy of the state that to promote the general welfare of its citizens it is necessary to remedy the unsafe and unsanitary housing conditions and the acute shortage of decent, safe, and sanitary dwellings for families of medium and low income, in urban and rural areas. 

(b)  The conditions described in Subsection (1)(a) cause an increase and spread of disease and crime, and constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, and welfare of the state.

(2) The Legislature declares that it is the policy of the state:

(a)  to make adequate provision of affordable housing for:

(i)  persons of medium or low income who are unable to provide themselves with decent housing including:

(A)  elderly persons;

(B)  persons with disabilities;

(C)  veterans;

(D)  special needs populations;

(E)  low income persons living on tribal trust lands;

(F)  persons receiving public assistance under self-sufficiency programs; or

(G)  low income persons living in mobile homes, as defined in Section 70D-2-102; and

(ii)  during limited periods, for disaster victims; and

(b)  that the provision of safe and sanitary dwelling accommodations at rents or prices that persons of medium and low income can afford will materially assist in developing more desirable neighborhoods and alleviating the effects of poverty in this state.

(3)  The purposes of this part and Part 4, Housing Authorities, are to meet these problems by:

(a)  providing low-cost housing for medium and low income persons; and

(b)  encouraging cooperation between political subdivisions and the nonprofit sector to make available low-cost housing in all areas of the state.

(4)  It is in the public interest to use the broad financial resources and technical services available to government in cooperation with the ingenuity and expertise of private enterprise to alleviate this lack of safe and sanitary dwellings while stimulating local industry, according to the following principles:

(a)  The private sector, including nonprofit entities, shall be the primary source of developing and providing affordable housing with state and local incentives to encourage housing development.

(b)  State money used in the development of housing shall:

(i)  be heavily leveraged when possible;

(ii)  be primarily invested as loans;

(iii)  be primarily spent on housing production; and

(iv)  give priority to needs of persons of medium or low income who are unable to provide themselves with decent housing including:

(A)  elderly persons;

(B)  persons with disabilities;

(C)  veterans;

(D)  special needs populations;

(E)  low income persons living on tribal trust lands;

(F)  persons receiving public assistance under self-sufficiency programs; and

(G)  low income persons living in mobile homes, as defined in Section 70D-2-102.

(c)  When possible based on economic feasibility and effectiveness, state housing programs shall encourage:

(i)  mixed income developments;

(ii)  socio-economic diversity in neighborhoods; and

(iii)  new, multifamily construction.

(d)  State resources may be used in partnership with political subdivisions or the private sector to promote affordable housing.

(e)  Within appropriations from the Legislature, the state may provide training and technical assistance to Utah’s political subdivision, quasi-governmental, and nonprofit housing providers.

