35A-8-1705.   Navajo Revitalization Fund Board.

(1)  There is created within the division the Navajo Revitalization Board composed of five members as follows:

(a)  the governor or the governor’s designee;

(b)  the two members of the San Juan County commission whose districts include portions of the Navajo Reservation;

(c)  the chair of the Navajo Utah Commission or a member of the commission designated by the chair of the Navajo Utah Commission; and

(d)  beginning July 1, 2008, a president of a Utah Navajo Chapter or an individual designated by the president under an annual rotation system of Utah Navajo Chapters as follows:

(i)  the president of a Utah Navajo Chapter shall serve for one year;

(ii)  the Utah Navajo Chapter is rotated in alphabetical order as provided in Subsection 35A-8-1702(7), except that the rotation will begin on July 1, 2008, with the Dennehotso Chapter;

(iii)  if the president of a Utah Navajo Chapter under Subsection (1)(d)(ii) is the same individual as the individual listed in Subsection (1)(c):

(A)  that Utah Navajo Chapter is skipped as part of that rotation; and

(B)  the president of the next Utah Navajo Chapter in the alphabetical rotation shall serve on the board.

(2)  The term of office for a member of the board described in Subsections (1)(a) through (c) runs concurrently with the term of office for the governor, county commissioner, or member of the Navajo Utah Commission.

(3) (a)  The governor, or the governor’s designee, is the chair of the board.

(b)  The chair shall call necessary meetings.

(4)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(5)  The per diem and travel expenses permitted under Subsection (4) may be included as costs of administration of the revitalization fund.

(6)  Four board members are a quorum.

(7)  An affirmative vote of each member of the board present at a meeting when a quorum is present is required for a board decision related to money in or disbursed from the revitalization fund.

