35A-8-2004.   Division to distribute amounts deposited into Youth Character Organization Restricted Account -- Procedures for distribution.

(1)  Subject to the other provisions of this section, the division shall distribute amounts deposited into the Youth Character Organization Restricted Account in accordance with Section 35A-8-2003 to one or more qualified youth character organization councils in the state.

(2)  A qualified youth character organization that receives a distribution from the division under this section shall expend the distribution only to accomplish the purposes described in 36 U.S.C. Sec. 80302.

(3)  An organization that seeks to receive a distribution from the division under this section shall, on or before May 1 of each year, file an application with the division:

(a)  on a form prescribed by the division;

(b)  that contains information required by the division to establish that the organization is a youth character organization council in the state; and

(c)  that contains any other information prescribed by the commission.

(4) (a)  The division shall, on or before June 1 of each year, determine whether an organization that files an application with the division under Subsection (3) is a youth character organization council in the state.

(b) (i)  If the division determines that an organization that files an application with the division under Subsection (3) is a youth character organization council, the division shall, on or before June 15 of each year, issue the organization a certificate stating that the organization is a qualified youth character organization council.

(ii)  If the division determines that an organization that files an application with the division under Subsection (3) is not a youth character organization council, the division shall provide the organization written notice stating the reasons for its determination.

(5)  On or before July 1 of each year, the division shall make the distributions required by this section to each qualified youth character organization council as follows:

(a)  the division shall, for each qualified youth character organization council, calculate a percentage:

(i)  the numerator of which is the youth membership of the qualified youth character organization council; and

(ii)  the denominator of which is the total youth membership of the qualified youth character organization councils;

(b)  the division shall, for each qualified youth character organization council, calculate an amount by multiplying the percentage the division calculates under Subsection (5)(a) by the lesser of:

(i)  the amount the Legislature appropriates to the division from the account for the fiscal year; or

(ii)  the balance in the account as of June 1 of that year; and

(c)  the division shall distribute the amount the division calculates under Subsection (5)(b) to each qualified youth character organization council.



Enacted by Chapter 338, 2013 General Session

