77-8a-1.   Joinder of offenses and of defendants.

(1)  Two or more felonies, misdemeanors, or both, may be charged in the same indictment or information if each offense is a separate count and if the offenses charged are:

(a)  based on the same conduct or are otherwise connected together in their commission; or

(b)  alleged to have been part of a common scheme or plan.

(2) (a)  When a felony and misdemeanor are charged together  the defendant is afforded a preliminary hearing with respect to both the misdemeanor and felony offenses.

(b)  Two or more defendants may be charged in the same indictment or information if they are alleged to have participated in the same act or conduct or in the same criminal episode.

(c)  The defendants may be charged in one or more counts together or separately and all of the defendants need not be charged in each count.

(d)  When two or more defendants are jointly charged with any offense, they shall be tried jointly unless the court in its discretion on motion or otherwise orders separate trials consistent with the interests of justice.

(3) (a)  The court may order two or more indictments or informations or both to be tried together if the offenses, and the defendants, if there is more than one, could have been joined in a single indictment or information.

(b)  The procedure shall be the same as if the prosecution were under a single indictment or information.

(4) (a)  If the court finds a defendant or the prosecution is prejudiced by a joinder of offenses or defendants in an indictment or information or by a joinder for trial together, the court shall order an election of separate trials of separate counts, grant a severance of defendants, or provide other relief as justice requires.

(b)  A defendant's right to severance of offenses or defendants is waived if the motion is not made at least five days before trial.  In ruling on a motion by defendant for severance, the court may order the prosecutor to disclose any statements made by the defendants which he intends to introduce in evidence at the trial.



Enacted by Chapter 201, 1990 General Session

