35A-3-102.   Definitions.

Unless otherwise specified, as used in this chapter:

(1)  "Applicant" means a person who requests assistance under this chapter.

(2)  "Average monthly number of families" means the average number of families who received cash assistance on a monthly basis during the previous federal fiscal year.

(3)  "Cash assistance" means a monthly dollar amount of cash a client is eligible to receive under Section 35A-3-302.

(4)  "Child care services" means care of a child for a portion of the day that is less than 24 hours in a qualified setting, as defined by rule, by a responsible person who is not the child's parent or legal guardian.

(5)  "Date of enrollment" means the date on which the applicant was approved as eligible for cash assistance.

(6)  "Director" means the director of the division.

(7)  "Diversion" means a single payment of cash assistance under Section 35A-3-303 to a client who is eligible for but does not require extended cash assistance under Part 3, Family Employment Program.

(8)  "Division" means the Employment Development Division.

(9)  "Education or training" means:

(a)  basic remedial education;

(b)  adult education;

(c)  high school education;

(d)  education to obtain the equivalent of a high school diploma;

(e)  education to learn English as a second language;

(f)  applied technology training;

(g)  employment skills training; or

(h)  on-the-job training.

(10)  "Full-time education or training" means training on a full-time basis as defined by the educational institution attended by the parent client.

(11)  "General assistance" means financial assistance provided to a person who is not otherwise eligible for cash assistance under Part 3, Family Employment Program, because that person does not live in a family with a related dependent child.

(12)  "Parent client" means a person who enters into an employment plan with the division to qualify for cash assistance under Part 3, Family Employment Program.

(13)  "Plan" or "state plan" means the state plan submitted to the Secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services to receive funding from the United States through the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Block Grant.

(14)  "Single minor parent" means a person under 18 years of age who is not married and has a minor child in the person's care and custody.

