35A-3-115.   Public Employment Offices -- Agreements with other authorities
-- Federal system accepted -- Appropriation.
(1) (a)  The division shall establish and maintain free public employment
offices in such manner and in such places as may be necessary for the proper
administration of this chapter and for the purposes of performing the
functions as are within the purview of the Act of Congress entitled "An act to
provide for the establishment of a national employment system and for co-
operation with the states in the promotion of such system, and for other
purposes," approved June 6, 1933, 48 Stat. 113; U. S. Code, Title 29, Section
49 (c) as amended, hereinafter referred to as the "Wagner-Peyser Act."
(b)  The division shall consult with regional councils on workforce services
when determining the location of public employment offices.
(c)  A public employment office may be located in connection with or as an
integrated part of an employment center established under Section 35A-2-203.
(2)  The provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act, 29 U.S.C. 49-49c, 49g, 49h, 49k,
and 557, are accepted by this state, and the department is designated and
constitutes the agency of this state for the purposes of the act.
(3)  All moneys received by this state under the Wagner-Peyser Act shall be
paid into the Employment Security Administration Fund created by Section
35A-4-505 and shall be expended solely for the maintenance of the state system
of public employment offices.
(4) (a)  For the purpose of establishing and maintaining free public
employment offices, and promoting the use of their facilities, the division is
authorized to enter into agreements with the railroad retirement board, or any
other agency of the United States, or of this or any other state, charged with
the administration of any law whose purposes are reasonably related to the
purposes of this chapter, and as a part of such agreements may accept moneys,
services or quarters as a contribution to the maintenance of the state system
of public employment offices or as reimbursement for services performed.
(b)  All moneys received or appropriated for such purposes shall be paid into
the Employment Security Administration Fund.
