35A-3-116.   Restricted special revenue fund -- Use of monies -- Committee and director duties -- Restrictions.

(1)  There is created a restricted special revenue fund, known as the "Refugee Services Fund," hereafter referred to in this section as "the fund."

(2)  The director or the director's designee, hereafter referred to in this section as the director, shall administer the fund with input from the Department of Community and Culture, including any advisory committees within the Department of Community and Culture that deal with refugee services issues.

(3) (a)  Money shall be deposited into the fund from numerous sources, including federal grants, private foundations, and individual donors.

(b)  The director shall encourage a refugee who receives services from activities funded under Subsection (8) to become a donor to the fund once the refugee's financial situation improves to the point where the refugee is capable of making a donation.

(4)  The director may not expend monies in the fund that are not restricted to a specific use under federal law or by donors without input from the Department of Community and Culture, either directly or through an advisory committee identified in Subsection (2).

(5)  The state treasurer shall invest the monies in the fund under Title 51, Chapter 7, State Money Management Act, and all interest or other earnings derived from the fund monies shall be deposited in the fund.

(6)  The monies in the fund may not be used by the director for administrative expenses.

(7)  If the Department of Community and Culture establishes a refugee services advisory committee referred to in Subsection (2), that committee may:

(a)  advise the director on refugee services needs in the state and on relevant operational aspects of any grant or revenue collection program established under this part;

(b)  recommend specific refugee projects to the director;

(c)  recommend policies and procedures for administering the fund;

(d)  make recommendations on grants made from the fund for any of the refugee services activities authorized under this section;

(e)  advise the director on the criteria by which grants shall be made from the fund;

(f)  recommend the order in which approved projects would be funded;

(g)  make recommendations regarding the distribution of money from the fund in accordance with the procedures, conditions, and restrictions placed upon monies in the fund by donors; and

(h)  have joint responsibility to solicit public and private funding for the fund.

(8)  The director may use fund monies to:

(a)  train an existing refugee organization to develop its capacity to operate professionally and effectively and to become an independent, viable organization; or

(b)  provide grants to an existing refugee organization and other entities identified in Subsection (9) to assist them:

(i)  with case management;

(ii)  in meeting emergency housing needs for refugees;

(iii)  in providing English language services;

(iv)  in providing interpretive services;

(v)  in finding and maintaining employment for refugees;

(vi)  in collaborating with the state's public education system to improve the involvement of refugee parents in assimilating their children into public schools;

(vii)  in meeting the health and mental health needs of refugees;

(viii)  in providing or arranging for child care services; or

(ix)  in administering refugee services.

(9)  In addition to Subsection (8), the director with advice from the Department of Community and Culture or its refugee services advisory committee, if one is created, may grant fund money for refugee services outlined in Subsection (8) through a request for proposal process to:

(a)  local governments;

(b)  nonprofit community, charitable, or neighborhood-based organizations or private for profit organizations that deal solely or in part with providing or arranging for the provision of refugee services; or

(c)  regional or statewide nonprofit organizations.

(10)  The director shall enter into a written agreement with each successful grant applicant that has specific terms for each grant consistent with the provisions of this section that includes the structure, amount, and nature of the grant.

(11)  The director shall monitor the activities of the recipients of grants issued from the fund on an annual basis to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions imposed on the recipient by the fund.

(12)  An entity receiving a grant shall provide the director with periodic accounting of how the monies it received from the fund were spent.

(13)  By November 1 of each year the director shall make an annual report to the Workforce Services and Community and Economic Development Interim Committee regarding the status of the fund and the programs and services funded by the fund.

