35A-3-205.   Creation of committee.
(1)  There is created a Child Care Advisory Committee.
(2)  The committee shall counsel and advise the office in fulfilling its
statutory obligations to include:
(a)  a review of and recommendations on the office's annual budget;
(b)  recommendations on how the office might best respond to child care needs
throughout the state; and
(c)  recommendations on the use of new monies that come into the office,
including those for the Child Care Fund.
(3)  The committee is composed of the following members, with special
attention given to insure diversity and representation from both urban and
rural groups:
(a)  one expert in early childhood development;
(b)  one child care provider who operates a center;
(c)  one child care provider who operates a family child care business;
(d)  one parent who is representative of households receiving a child care
subsidy from the office;
(e)  one representative from the public at-large;
(f)  one representative of the State Office of Education;
(g)  one representative of the Department of Health;
(h)  one representative of the Department of Human Services;
(i)  one representative of the Department of Community and Culture;
(j)  two representatives from the corporate community, one who is a recent
"Family Friendly" award winner and who received the award because of efforts
in the child care arena;
(k)  two representatives from the small business community;
(l)  one representative from child care advocacy groups;
(m)  one representative of children with disabilities;
(n)  one representative from the state Head Start Association appointed by the
association;
(o)  one representative from each child care provider association; and
(p)  one representative of a child care resource and referral center appointed
by the organization representing child care resource and referral agencies.
(4) (a)  The executive director shall appoint the members designated in
Subsections (3)(a) through (e) and (j) through (n).
(b)  The head of the respective departments shall appoint the members referred
to in Subsections (3)(f) through (i).
(c)  Each child care provider association shall appoint its respective member
referred to in Subsection (3)(o).
(5) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (5)(b), as terms of current
committee members expire, the appointing authority shall appoint each new
member or reappointed member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (5)(a), the appointing
authority shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the
length of terms to ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so
that approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.
(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, including missing
three consecutive meetings where the member has not been excused by the chair
prior to or during the meeting, the replacement shall be appointed for the
unexpired term.
(7)  A majority of the members constitutes a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(8) (a)  The executive director shall select a chair from the committee
membership.
(b)  A chair may serve no more than two one-year terms as chair.
(9) (a)  Members who are not government employees may not receive compensation
or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred
in the performance of the member’s official duties at the rates established
by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(b)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive salary,
per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive per diem
and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties from the
committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections
63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(c)  Members identified in Subsections (9)(a) and (b) may decline to receive
per diem and expenses for their service.
