35A-3-307.   Cash assistance to a single minor parent.
(1)  The division may provide cash assistance to a single minor parent in
accordance with this section.
(2)  A single minor parent who receives cash assistance under this part shall:
(a)  reside in a place of residence maintained by a parent, legal guardian, or
other adult relative of the single minor parent, except as provided in
Subsection (3);
(b)  participate in education for parenting and life skills;
(c)  participate in infant and child wellness programs operated by the
Department of Health; and
(d)  for not less than 20 hours per week:
(i)  attend high school or an alternative to high school, if the single minor
parent does not have a high school diploma;
(ii)  participate in education or training; or
(iii)  participate in a combination of employment and education or training.
(3) (a)  If the division determines that the requirements of Subsection (2)(a)
are not appropriate for a single minor parent, the division may assist the
single minor parent to obtain suitable living arrangements, including an
adult-supervised living arrangement.
(b)  As a condition of receiving cash assistance, a single minor parent who is
exempt from the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) shall reside in a living
arrangement that is approved by the division.
(c)  The approval by the division of a living arrangement under Subsection
(3)(b):
(i)  is a means of safeguarding the use of state and federal funds; and
(ii)  is not a certification or guarantee of the safety, quality, or condition
of the living arrangements of the single minor parent.
(4) (a)  If a single minor parent resides with a parent, the division shall
include the income of the parent of the single minor parent in determining the
single minor parent's eligibility for services and supports under this part.
(b)  If a single minor parent receives services and supports under this
chapter but does not reside with a parent, the division shall seek an order
under Title 78B, Chapter 12, Utah Child Support Act, requiring the parent of
the single minor parent to financially support the single minor parent.
(5)  The requirements of this section shall be included in a single minor
parent's employment plan under Section 35A-3-304.
