10-6-111.   Tentative budget to be prepared -- Contents -- Estimate of
expenditures -- Budget message -- Review by governing body.
(1) (a)  On or before the first regularly scheduled meeting of the governing
body in the last May of the current period, the budget officer shall prepare
for the ensuing fiscal period, on forms provided by the state auditor, and
file with the governing body, a tentative budget for each fund for which a
budget is required.
(b)  The tentative budget of each fund shall set forth in tabular form:
(i)  the actual revenues and expenditures in the last completed fiscal period;
(ii)  the budget estimates for the current fiscal period;
(iii)  the actual revenues and expenditures for a period of 6 to 21 months, as
appropriate, of the current fiscal period;
(iv)  the estimated total revenues and expenditures for the current fiscal
period;
(v)  the budget officer's estimates of revenues and expenditures for the
budget period, computed as provided in Subsection (1)(c); and
(vi)  if the governing body elects, the actual performance experience to the
extent established by Section 10-6-154 and available in work units, unit
costs, man hours, or man years for each budgeted fund on an actual basis for
the last completed fiscal period, and estimated for the current fiscal period
and for the ensuing budget period.
(c) (i)  In making estimates of revenues and expenditures under Subsection
(1)(b)(v), the budget officer shall estimate:
(A)  on the basis of demonstrated need, the expenditures for the budget
period, after:
(I)  hearing each department head; and
(II)  reviewing the budget requests and estimates of the department heads; and
(B) (I)  the amount of revenue available to serve the needs of each fund;
(II)  the portion of revenue to be derived from all sources other than general
property taxes; and
(III)  the portion of revenue that shall be derived from general property
taxes.
(ii)  The budget officer may revise any department's estimate under Subsection
(1)(c)(i)(A)(II) that the officer considers advisable for the purpose of
presenting the budget to the governing body.
(iii)  From the estimate made under Subsection (1)(c)(i)(B)(III), the budget
officer shall compute and disclose in the budget the lowest rate of property
tax levy that will raise the required amount of revenue, calculating the levy
upon the latest taxable value.
(2) (a)  Each tentative budget, when filed by the budget officer with the
governing body, shall contain the estimates of expenditures submitted by
department heads, together with specific work programs and such other
supporting data as this chapter requires or the governing body may request.
Each city of the first or second class shall, and a city of the third, fourth,
or fifth class may, submit a supplementary estimate of all capital projects
which each department head believes should be undertaken within the next three
succeeding years.
(b)  Each tentative budget submitted by the budget officer to the governing
body shall be accompanied by a budget message, which shall explain the budget,
contain an outline of the proposed financial policies of the city for the
budget period, and shall describe the important features of the budgetary
plan.  It shall set forth the reasons for salient changes from the previous
fiscal period in appropriation and revenue items and shall explain any major
changes in financial policy.
(3)  Each tentative budget shall be reviewed, considered, and tentatively
adopted by the governing body in any regular meeting or special meeting called
for the purpose and may be amended or revised in such manner as is considered
advisable prior to public hearings, except that no appropriation required for
debt retirement and interest or reduction of any existing deficits pursuant to
Section 10-6-117, or otherwise required by law or ordinance, may be reduced
below the minimums so required.
(4) (a)  If the municipality is acting pursuant to Section 10-2-120, the
tentative budget shall:
(i)  be submitted to the governing body-elect as soon as practicable; and
(ii)  cover each fund for which a budget is required from the date of
incorporation to the end of the fiscal year.
(b)  The governing body shall substantially comply with all other provisions
of this chapter, and the budget shall be passed upon incorporation.
