10-6-116.   Accumulated fund balances -- Limitations -- Excess balances --
Unanticipated excess of revenues -- Reserves for capital improvements.
(1)  Cities are permitted to accumulate retained earnings or fund balances, as
appropriate, in any fund.  With respect to the General Fund only, any
accumulated fund balance is restricted to the following purposes:
(a)  to provide working capital to finance expenditures from the beginning of
the budget period until general property taxes, sales taxes, or other
applicable revenues are collected, thereby reducing the amount which the city
must borrow during the period, but this Subsection (1)(a) does not permit the
appropriation of any fund balance for budgeting purposes except as provided in
Subsection (4);
(b)  to provide a resource to meet emergency expenditures under Section
10-6-129; and
(c)  to cover a pending year-end excess of expenditures over revenues from an
unavoidable shortfall in revenues.   This provision does not permit the
appropriation of any fund balance to avoid an operating deficit during any
budget period except as provided under Subsection (4), or for emergency
purposes under Section 10-6-129.
(2)  The accumulation of a fund balance in the General Fund may not exceed 18%
of the total estimated revenue of the General Fund.
(3)  If the fund balance at the close of any fiscal period exceeds the amount
permitted under Subsection (2), the excess shall be appropriated in the manner
provided in Section 10-6-117.
(4)  Any fund balance in excess of 5% of the total revenues of the General
Fund may be utilized for budget purposes.
(5) (a)  Within a capital improvements fund the governing body may, in any
budget period, appropriate from estimated revenue or fund balance to a reserve
for capital improvements for the purpose of financing future specific capital
improvements, under a formal long-range capital plan adopted by the governing
body.
(b)  The reserves may accumulate from fiscal period to fiscal period until the
accumulated total is sufficient to permit economical expenditure for the
specified purposes.
(c)  Disbursements from these reserves shall be made only by transfer to a
revenue or transfer account within the capital improvements fund, under a
budget appropriation in a budget for the fund adopted in the manner provided
by this chapter.
(d)  Expenditures from the above appropriation budget accounts shall conform
to all requirements of this chapter relating to execution and control of
budgets.
