53B-17-803.   Advisory board created.

(1)  The university shall create an advisory board known as the "Rocky Mountain Center for Occupational and Environmental Health Advisory Board" to:

(a)  promote occupational health and safety in Utah and the surrounding region;

(b)  promote the interests and mission of the center by advising the director on issues including:

(i)  operation of the center as a multidisciplinary, state-of-the-art program at the university;

(ii)  developing and maintaining state and institutional support;

(iii)  emerging local or regional, occupational health and safety education and research needs;

(iv)  continuing education and outreach to local and regional occupational health and safety professionals;

(v)  coordinating with other local or regional entities that promote occupational health and safety in a manner that meets the needs of both employers and employees; and

(vi)  grant requirements and renewal;

(c)  advise the director on the expenditure by the center of public funds including:

(i)  funds appropriated by the Legislature;

(ii)  donations; and

(iii)  federal or other grants; and

(d)  develop recommendations for the long-term operation of the center consistent with Section 53B-17-802.

(2) (a)  The board shall consist of no fewer than 15 and no more than 18 persons who represent the affected populations.

(b)  The university shall establish reasonable bylaws for the operation of the board including:

(i)  the selection of board members;

(ii)  quorum requirements; and

(iii)  voting requirements.

(3)  The board shall elect a board chair and vice chair from among the board members by a vote of the members.

(4) (a)  The board shall have an executive committee consisting of:

(i)  the board chair;

(ii)  the board vice chair; and

(iii)  three other board members, selected by the board chair in consultation with the director.

(b)  The executive committee shall meet at least quarterly to advise the center and to plan for board meetings.

(5)  The board chair, in consultation with the director, shall call board meetings at least two times each calendar year.

(6)  The board and the executive committee are subject to Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.

(7)  A board member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 286, 2010 General Session

