62A-4a-113.   Division's enforcement authority -- Responsibility of attorney
general to represent division.
(1)  The division shall take legal action that is necessary to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(2) (a)  Subject to the provisions of Section 67-5-17, the attorney general
shall enforce all provisions of this chapter, in addition to the requirements
of Title 78A, Chapter 6, Juvenile Court Act of 1996, relating to protection
and custody of abused, neglected, or dependent minors.  The attorney general
may contract with the local county attorney to enforce the provisions of this
chapter and Title 78A, Chapter 6, Juvenile Court Act of 1996.
(b)  It is the responsibility of the attorney general's office to:
(i)  advise the division regarding decisions to remove a minor from the
minor's home;
(ii)  represent the division in all court and administrative proceedings
related to abuse, neglect, and dependency including, but not limited to,
shelter hearings, dispositional hearings, dispositional review hearings,
periodic review hearings, and petitions for termination of parental rights;
and
(iii)  be available to and advise caseworkers on an ongoing basis.
(c)  The attorney general shall designate no less than 16 full-time attorneys
to advise and represent the division in abuse, neglect, and dependency
proceedings, including petitions for termination of parental rights.  Those
attorneys shall devote their full time and attention to that representation
and, insofar as it is practicable, shall be housed in or near various offices
of the division statewide.
(3)  As of July 1, 1998, the attorney general's office shall represent the
division with regard to actions involving minors who have not been adjudicated
as abused or neglected, but who are otherwise committed to the custody of the
division by the juvenile court, and who are classified in the division's
management information system as having been placed in custody primarily on
the basis of delinquent behavior or a status offense.  Nothing in this section
may be construed to affect the responsibility of the county attorney or
district attorney to represent the state in those matters, in accordance with
Section 78A-6-115.
