62A-4a-207.   Legislative Oversight Panel -- Responsibilities.
(1) (a)  There is created the Child Welfare Legislative Oversight Panel
composed of the following members:
(i)  two members of the Senate, one from the majority party and one from the
minority party, appointed by the president of the Senate; and
(ii)  three members of the House of Representatives, two from the majority
party and one from the minority party, appointed by the speaker of the House
of Representatives.
(b)  Members of the panel shall serve for two-year terms, or until their
successors are appointed.
(c)  A vacancy exists whenever a member ceases to be a member of the
Legislature, or when a member resigns from the panel.  Vacancies shall be
filled by the appointing authority, and the replacement shall fill the
unexpired term.
(2)  The president of the Senate shall designate one of the senators appointed
to the panel under Subsection (1) as the Senate chair of the panel.  The
speaker of the House of Representatives shall designate one of the
representatives appointed to the panel under Subsection (1) as the House chair
of the panel.
(3)  The panel shall follow the interim committee rules established by the
Legislature.
(4)  The panel shall:
(a)  examine and observe the process and execution of laws governing the child
welfare system by the executive branch and the judicial branch;
(b)  upon request, receive testimony from the public, the juvenile court, and
from all state agencies involved with the child welfare system, including the
division, other offices and agencies within the department, the attorney
general's office, the Office of Guardian Ad Litem, and school districts;
(c)  before October 1 of each year, receive reports from the division, the
attorney general, and the judicial branch identifying the cases not in
compliance with the time limits established in Section 78A-6-309, regarding
pretrial and adjudication hearings, Section 78A-6-312, regarding dispositional
hearings and reunification services, and Section 78A-6-314, regarding
permanency hearings and petitions for termination, and the reasons for the
noncompliance;
(d)  receive recommendations from, and make recommendations to the governor,
the Legislature, the attorney general, the division, the Office of Guardian Ad
Litem, the juvenile court, and the public;
(e) (i)  receive reports from the executive branch and the judicial branch on
budgetary issues impacting the child welfare system; and
(ii)  recommend, as the panel considers advisable, budgetary proposals to the
Health and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee, the Executive Offices
and Criminal Justice Appropriations Subcommittee, and the Executive
Appropriations Committee, which recommendation should be made before December
1 of each year;
(f)  study and recommend proposed changes to laws governing the child welfare
system;
(g)  study actions the state can take to preserve, unify, and strengthen the
child's family ties whenever possible in the child's best interest, including
recognizing the constitutional rights and claims of parents whenever those
family ties are severed or infringed;
(h)  perform such other duties related to the oversight of the child welfare
system as the panel considers appropriate; and
(i)  annually report the panel's findings and recommendations to the president
of the Senate, the speaker of the House of Representatives, the Health and
Human Services Interim Committee, and the Judiciary Interim Committee.
(5) (a)  The panel has authority to review and discuss individual cases.
(b)  When an individual case is discussed, the panel's meeting may be closed
pursuant to Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.
(c)  When discussing an individual case, the panel shall make reasonable
efforts to identify and consider the concerns of all parties to the case.
(6) (a)  The panel has authority to make recommendations to the Legislature,
the governor, the Board of Juvenile Court Judges, the division, and any other
statutorily created entity related to the policies and procedures of the child
welfare system.  The panel does not have authority to make recommendations to
the court, the division, or any other public or private entity regarding the
disposition of any individual case.
(b)  The panel may hold public hearings, as it considers advisable, in various
locations within the state in order to afford all interested persons an
opportunity to appear and present their views regarding the child welfare
system in this state.
(7) (a)  All records of the panel regarding individual cases shall be
classified private, and may be disclosed only in accordance with federal law
and the provisions of Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and
Management Act.
(b)  The panel shall have access to all of the division's records, including
those regarding individual cases.  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 2,
Government Records Access and Management Act, all documents and information
received by the panel shall maintain the same classification that was
designated by the division.
(8)  In order to accomplish its oversight functions, the panel has:
(a)  all powers granted to legislative interim committees in Section 36-12-11;
and
(b)  legislative subpoena powers under Title 36, Chapter 14, Legislative
Subpoena Powers.
(9)  Members of the panel shall receive salary and expenses in accordance with
Section 36-2-2.
(10) (a)  The Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel shall provide
staff support to the panel.
(b)  The panel is authorized to employ additional professional assistance and
other staff members as it considers necessary and appropriate.
