62A-4a-311.   Child Abuse Advisory Council -- Creation -- Membership --
Expenses.
(1) (a)  There is established the Child Abuse Advisory Council composed of no
more than 25 members who are appointed by the division.
(b)  Except as required by Subsection (1)(c), as terms of current council
members expire, the division shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(c)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (1)(b), the division
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that
approximately half of the council is appointed every two years.
(d)  The council shall have geographic, economic, gender, cultural, and
philosophical diversity.
(e)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(2)  The council shall elect a chairperson from its membership at least
biannually.
(3) (a)  A member of the council who is not a government employee shall
receive no compensation or benefits for the member's services, but may:
(i)  receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's
official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107; or
(ii)  decline to receive per diem and expenses for the member's service.
(b)  A member of the council who is a state government officer or employee and
who does not receive salary, per diem, or expenses from the member's agency
for the member's service may:
(i)  receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's
official duties from the commission at the rates established by the Division
of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107; or
(ii)  decline to receive per diem and expenses for the member's service.
(4)  The council shall hold a public meeting quarterly.  Within budgetary
constraints, meetings may also be held on the call of the chair, or of a
majority of the members. A majority of the members currently appointed to the
council constitute a quorum at any meeting and the action of the majority of
the members present shall be the action of the council.
(5)  The council shall:
(a)  advise the division on matters relating to abuse and neglect; and
(b)  recommend to the division how funds contained in the Children's Trust
Account should be allocated.
