62A-4a-607.   Promotion of adoption -- Agency notice to potential adoptive
parents.
(1) (a)  The division and all child placing agencies licensed under this part
shall promote adoption when that is a possible and appropriate alternative for
a child.  Specifically, in accordance with Section 62A-4a-205.6, the division
shall actively promote the adoption of all children in its custody who have a
final plan for termination of parental rights pursuant to Section 78A-6-314 or
a primary permanency goal of adoption.
(b)  Beginning May 1, 2000, the division may not place a child for adoption,
either temporarily or permanently, with any individual or individuals who do
not qualify for adoptive placement pursuant to the requirements of Sections
78B-6-117, 78B-6-102, and 78B-6-137.
(2)  The division shall obtain or conduct research of prior adoptive families
to determine what families may do to be successful with their adoptive
children and shall make this research available to potential adoptive parents.
(3) (a)  A child placing agency licensed under this part shall inform each
potential adoptive parent with whom it is working that:
(i)  children in the custody of the state are available for adoption;
(ii)  Medicaid coverage for medical, dental, and mental health services may be
available for these children;
(iii)  tax benefits, including the tax credit provided for in Section
59-10-1104, and financial assistance may be available to defray the costs of
adopting these children;
(iv)  training and ongoing support may be available to the adoptive parents of
these children; and
(v)  information about individual children may be obtained by contacting the
division's offices or its Internet site as explained by the child placing
agency.
(b)  A child placing agency shall:
(i)  provide the notice required by Subsection (3)(a) at the earliest possible
opportunity; and
(ii)  simultaneously distribute a copy of the pamphlet prepared by the
division in accordance with Subsection (3)(d).
(c)  As a condition of licensure, the child placing agency shall certify to
the Office of Licensing at the time of license renewal that it has complied
with the provisions of this section.
(d)  Before July 1, 2000, the division shall:
(i)  prepare a pamphlet that explains the information that is required by
Subsection (3)(a); and
(ii)  regularly distribute copies of the pamphlet described in Subsection
(3)(d)(i) to child placing agencies.
(e)  The division shall respond to any inquiry made as a result of the notice
provided in Subsection (3)(a).
