62A-4a-701.   Interstate Compact on Placement of Children -- Text.

The Interstate Compact on the Placement of Children is hereby enacted and entered into with all other jurisdictions that legally join in the compact which is, in form, substantially as follows:  INTERSTATE COMPACT ON PLACEMENT OF CHILDREN  ARTICLE I  Purpose and Policy

It is the purpose and policy of the party states to cooperate with each other in the interstate placement of children so that:

(1)  Each child requiring placement shall receive the maximum opportunity to be placed in a suitable environment and with persons or institutions having appropriate qualifications and facilities to provide necessary and desirable care.

(2)  The appropriate authorities in a state where a child is to be placed may have full opportunity to ascertain the circumstances of the proposed placement, thereby promoting full compliance with applicable requirements for the protection of the child.

(3)  The proper authorities of the state from which the placement is made may obtain the most complete information on the basis of which to evaluate a projected placement before it is made.

(4)  Appropriate jurisdictional arrangements for the care of the children will be promoted.  ARTICLE II  Definitions

As used in this compact:

(1)  "Child" means a person who, by reason of minority, is legally subject to parental, guardianship, or similar control.

(2)  "Sending agency" means a party state, officer, or employee thereof; a subdivision of a party state, or officer or employee thereof; a court of a party state; a person, corporation, association, Indian tribe, charitable agency, or other entity which sends, brings, or causes to be sent or brought any child to another party state.

(3)  "Receiving state" means the state to which a child is sent, brought or caused to be sent or brought, whether by public authorities or private persons or agencies, and whether for placement with state or local public authorities or for placement with private agencies or persons.

(4)  "Placement" means the arrangement for the care of a child in a family free, adoptive, or boarding home, or in a child-caring agency or institution but does not include any institution caring for the mentally ill, mentally defective or epileptic or any institution, primarily educational in character, and any hospital or other medical facility.  ARTICLE III  Conditions for Placement

(1)  No sending agency shall send, bring, or cause to be sent or brought into any other party state any child for placement in foster care or as a preliminary to a possible adoption unless the sending agency shall comply with each and every requirement set forth in this article and with the applicable laws of the receiving state governing the placement of children therein.

(2)  Prior to sending, bringing, or causing any child to be sent or brought into a receiving state for placement in foster care or as a preliminary to a possible adoption, the sending agency shall furnish the appropriate public authorities in the receiving state written notice of the intention to send, bring, or place the child in the receiving state.  The notice shall contain:

(a)  The name, date, and place of birth of the child.

(b)  The identity and address or addresses of the parents or legal guardian.

(c)  The name and address of the person, agency, or institution to or with which the sending agency proposes to send, bring, or place the child.

(d)  A full statement of the reasons for such proposed action and evidence of the authority pursuant to which the placement is proposed to be made.

(e)  Any public officer or agency in a receiving agency state which is in receipt of a notice pursuant to Paragraph (2) of this article may request of the sending agency, or any other appropriate officer or agency of or in the sending agency's state, and shall be entitled to receive therefrom, such supporting or additional information as it may deem necessary under the circumstances to carry out the purpose and policy of this compact.

(f)  The child shall not be sent, brought, or caused to be sent or brought into the receiving state until the appropriate public authorities in the receiving state shall notify the sending agency, in writing, to the effect that the proposed placement does not appear to be contrary to the interests of the child.  ARTICLE IV  Penalty for Illegal Placement

The sending, bringing, or causing to be sent or brought into any receiving state of a child in violation of the terms of this compact shall constitute a violation of the laws respecting the placement of children of both the state in which the sending agency is located or from which it sends or brings the child and of the receiving state.  Such violation may be punished or subjected to penalty in either jurisdiction in accordance with its laws.  In addition to liability for any such punishment or penalty, any violation shall constitute full and sufficient grounds for the suspension or revocation of any license, permit, or other legal authorization held by the sending agency which empowers or allows it to place, or care for children.  ARTICLE V  Retention of Jurisdiction

(1)  The sending agency shall retain jurisdiction over the child sufficient to determine all matters in relation to the custody, supervision, care, treatment, and disposition of the child which it would have had if the child had remained in the sending agency's state, until the child is adopted, reaches majority, becomes self-supporting, or is discharged with the concurrence of the appropriate authority in the receiving state.  Such jurisdiction shall also include the power to effect or cause the return of the child or its transfer to another location and custody pursuant to law.  The sending agency shall continue to have financial responsibility for support and maintenance of the child during the period of the placement.  Nothing contained herein shall defeat a claim of jurisdiction by a receiving state sufficient to deal with an act of delinquency or crime committed therein.

(2)  When the sending agency is a public agency, it may enter into an agreement with an authorized public or private agency in the receiving state providing for the performance of one or more services in respect of such case by the latter as agent for the sending agency.

(3)  Nothing in this compact shall be construed to prevent any agency authorized to place children in the receiving agency from performing services or acting as agent in the receiving agency jurisdiction for a private charitable agency of the sending agency; nor to prevent the receiving agency from discharging financial responsibility for the support and maintenance of a child who has been placed on behalf of the sending agency without relieving the responsibility set forth in Paragraph (1) above.  ARTICLE VI  Institutional Care of Delinquent Children

A child adjudicated delinquent may be placed in an institution in another party jurisdiction pursuant to this compact, but no such placement shall be made unless the child is given a court hearing on notice to the parent or guardian with opportunity to be heard, prior to his being sent to such other party jurisdiction for institutional care and the court finds that:

(1)  equivalent facilities for the child are not available in the sending agency's jurisdiction; and

(2)  institutional care in the other jurisdiction is in the best interest of the child and will not produce undue hardship.  ARTICLE VII  Compact Administrator

The executive head of each jurisdiction party to this compact shall designate an officer who shall be general coordinator of activities under this compact in his jurisdiction and who, acting jointly with like officers of the party jurisdictions, shall have power to promulgate rules and regulations to carry out more effectively the terms and provisions of this compact.  ARTICLE VIII  Limitations

This compact shall not apply to:

(1)  The sending or bringing of a child into a receiving state by his parent, step-parent, grandparent, adult brother or sister, adult uncle or aunt, or his guardian and leaving the child with any such relative or nonagency guardian in the receiving state.

(2)  Any placement, sending or bringing of a child into a receiving state pursuant to any other interstate compact to which both the state from which the child is sent or brought and the receiving state are party or to any other agreement between said states which has the force of law.  ARTICLE IX  Enactment and Withdrawal

This compact shall be open to joinder by any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and with the consent of Congress, the government of Canada or any province thereof.  It shall become effective with respect to any such jurisdiction when such jurisdiction has enacted the same into law.  Withdrawal from this compact shall be by the enactment of a statute repealing the same but shall not take effect until two years after the effective date of such statute and until written notice of the withdrawal has been given by the withdrawing state to the governor of each other party jurisdiction.  Withdrawal of a party state shall not affect the rights, duties, and obligations under this compact of any sending agency therein with respect to a placement made prior to the effective date of withdrawal.  ARTICLE X  Construction and Severability

The provisions of this compact shall be liberally construed to effectuate the purposes thereof.  The provisions of this compact shall be severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, or provision of this compact is declared to be contrary to the constitution of any party state or of the United States, the applicability thereof to any government, agency, person, or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.  If this compact shall be held contrary to the constitution of any state party thereto, the compact shall remain in full force and effect as to the remaining states and in full force and effect as to the state affected as to all severable matters.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 260, 1994 General Session

