62A-4a-1006.   Licensing Information System -- Contents -- Juvenile court
finding -- Protected record -- Access -- Criminal penalty.
(1) (a)  The division shall maintain a sub-part of the Management Information
System established pursuant to Section 62A-4a-1003, to be known as the
Licensing Information System, to be used:
(i)  for licensing purposes; or
(ii)  as otherwise specifically provided for by law.
(b)  The Licensing Information System shall include only the following
information:
(i)  the information described in Subsections 62A-4a-1005(1)(b) and (3)(b);
(ii)  consented-to supported findings by alleged perpetrators under Subsection
62A-4a-1005(3)(a)(iii); and
(iii)  the information in the licensing part of the division's Management
Information System as of May 6, 2002.
(2)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1), the department's access to information in
the Management Information System for the licensure and monitoring of foster
parents is governed by Sections 62A-4a-1003 and 62A-2-121.
(3)  Subject to Subsection 62A-4a-1005(3)(e), upon receipt of a finding from
the juvenile court under Section 78A-6-323, the division shall:
(a)  promptly amend the Licensing Information System; and
(b)  enter the information in the Management Information System.
(4) (a)  Information contained in the Licensing Information System is
classified as a protected record under Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government
Records Access and Management Act.
(b)  Notwithstanding the disclosure provisions of Title 63G, Chapter 2,
Government Records Access and Management Act, the information contained in the
Licensing Information System may only be used or disclosed as specifically
provided in this chapter and Section 62A-2-121.
(c)  The information described in Subsection (4)(b) is accessible only to:
(i)  the Office of Licensing within the department:
(A)  for licensing purposes; or
(B)  as otherwise specifically provided for by law;
(ii)  the division to:
(A)  screen a person at the request of the Office of Guardian Ad Litem:
(I)  at the time that person seeks a paid or voluntary position with the
Office of Guardian Ad Litem; and
(II)  on an annual basis, throughout the time that the person remains with the
Office of Guardian Ad Litem; and
(B)  respond to a request for information from a person whose name is listed
in the Licensing Information System;
(iii)  persons designated by the Department of Health and approved by the
Department of Human Services, only for the following purposes:
(A)  licensing a child care program or provider; or
(B)  determining whether a person associated with a covered health care
facility, as defined by the Department of Health by rule, who provides direct
care to a child, has a supported finding of a severe type of child abuse or
neglect;
(iv)  persons designated by the Department of Workforce Services and approved
by the Department of Human Services for the purpose of qualifying child care
providers under Section 35A-3-310.5; and
(v)  the department, as specifically provided in this chapter.
(5)  The persons designated by the Department of Health under Subsection
(4)(c)(iii) and the persons designated by the Department of Workforce Services
under Subsection (4)(c)(iv) shall adopt measures to:
(a)  protect the security of the Licensing Information System; and
(b)  strictly limit access to the Licensing Information System to those
persons designated by statute.
(6)  All persons designated by statute as having access to information
contained in the Licensing Information System shall be approved by the
Department of Human Services and receive training from the department with
respect to:
(a)  accessing the Licensing Information System;
(b)  maintaining strict security; and
(c)  the criminal provisions of Sections 62A-4a-412 and 63G-2-801 pertaining
to the improper release of information.
(7) (a)  A person, except those authorized by this chapter, may not request
another person to obtain or release any other information in the Licensing
Information System to screen for potential perpetrators of abuse or neglect.
(b)  A person who requests information knowing that it is a violation of this
Subsection (7) to do so is subject to the criminal penalty described in
Sections 62A-4a-412 and 63G-2-801.
