62A-4a-1009.   Notice and opportunity to challenge supported finding in
Management Information System -- Right of judicial review.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2), the division shall send a
notice of agency action to a person with respect to whom the division makes a
supported finding.  In addition, if the alleged perpetrator is under the age
of 18, the division shall:
(i)  make reasonable efforts to identify the alleged perpetrator's parent or
guardian; and
(ii)  send a notice to each parent or guardian identified under Subsection
(1)(a)(i) that lives at a different address, unless there is good cause, as
defined by rule, for not sending a notice to a parent or guardian.
(b)  Nothing in this section may be construed as affecting:
(i)  the manner in which the division conducts an investigation; or
(ii)  the use or effect, in any other setting, of a supported finding by the
division at the completion of an investigation for any purpose other than for
notification under Subsection (1) (a).
(2)  Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who has been served with notice
under Subsection 62A-4a-1005(1)(a).
(3)  The notice described in Subsection (1) shall state:
(a)  that the division has conducted an investigation regarding alleged abuse,
neglect, or dependency;
(b)  that the division has made a supported finding of abuse, neglect, or
dependency;
(c)  that facts gathered by the division support the supported finding;
(d)  that the person has the right to request:
(i)  a copy of the report; and
(ii)  an opportunity to challenge the supported finding by the division; and
(e)  that failure to request an opportunity to challenge the supported finding
within 30 days of receiving the notice will result in an unappealable
supported finding of abuse, neglect, or dependency unless the person can show
good cause for why compliance within the 30-day requirement was virtually
impossible or unreasonably burdensome.
(4) (a)  A person may make a request to challenge a supported finding within
30 days of a notice being received under this section.
(b)  Upon receipt of a request under Subsection (4)(a), the Office of
Administrative Hearings shall hold an adjudicative proceeding pursuant to
Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(5) (a)  In an adjudicative proceeding held pursuant to this section, the
division shall have the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that abuse, neglect, or dependency occurred and that the alleged perpetrator
was substantially responsible for the abuse or neglect that occurred.
(b)  Any party shall have the right of judicial review of final agency action,
in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(c)  Proceedings for judicial review of a final agency action under this
section shall be closed to the public.
(d)  The Judicial Council shall make rules that ensure the confidentiality of
the proceedings described in Subsection (5)(c) and the records related to the
proceedings.
(6)  Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, an alleged perpetrator who,
after receiving notice, fails to challenge a supported finding in accordance
with this section:
(a)  may not further challenge the finding; and
(b)  shall have no right to:
(i)  agency review of the finding;
(ii)  an adjudicative hearing on the finding; or
(iii)  judicial review of the finding.
(7) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(b), an alleged perpetrator may
not make a request under Subsection (4) to challenge a supported finding if a
court of competent jurisdiction entered a finding, in a proceeding in which
the alleged perpetrator was a party, that the alleged perpetrator is
substantially responsible for the abuse, neglect, or dependency which was also
the subject of the supported finding.
(b)  Subsection (7)(a) does not apply to pleas in abeyance or diversion
agreements.
(c)  An adjudicative proceeding under Subsection (5) may be stayed during the
time a judicial action on the same matter is pending.
(8)  Pursuant to Section 78A-6-323, an adjudicative proceeding on a supported
finding of a type of abuse or neglect that does not constitute a severe type
of child abuse or neglect may be joined in the juvenile court with an
adjudicative proceeding on a supported finding of a severe type of child abuse
or neglect.
