31A-37-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Affiliated company" means a business entity that because of common
ownership, control, operation, or management is in the same corporate system
as:
(a)  a parent;
(b)  an industrial insured; or
(c)  a member organization.
(2)  "Alien captive insurance company" means an insurer:
(a)  formed to write insurance business for a parent or affiliate of the
insurer; and
(b)  licensed pursuant to the laws of an alien jurisdiction that imposes
statutory or regulatory standards:
(i)  on a business entity transacting the business of insurance in the alien
jurisdiction; and
(ii)  in a form acceptable to the commissioner.
(3)  "Association" means a legal association of two or more persons that has
been in continuous existence for at least one year if:
(a)  the association or its member organizations:
(i)  own, control, or hold with power to vote all of the outstanding voting
securities of an association captive insurance company incorporated as a stock
insurer; or
(ii)  have complete voting control over an association captive insurance
company incorporated as a mutual insurer;
(b)  the association's member organizations collectively constitute all of the
subscribers of an association captive insurance company formed as a reciprocal
insurer; or
(c)  the association or its member organizations have complete voting control
over an association captive insurance company formed as a limited liability
company.
(4)  "Association captive insurance company" means a business entity that
insures risks of:
(a)  a member organization of the association;
(b) an affiliate of a member organization of the association; and
(c)  the association.
(5)  "Branch business" means an insurance business transacted by a branch
captive insurance company in this state.
(6)  "Branch captive insurance company" means an alien captive insurance
company that has a certificate of authority from the commissioner to transact
the business of insurance in this state through a business unit with a
principal place of business in this state.
(7)  "Branch operation" means a business operation of a branch captive
insurance company in this state.
(8)  "Captive insurance company" means any of the following formed or holding
a certificate of authority under this chapter:
(a)  a branch captive insurance company;
(b)  a pure captive insurance company;
(c)  an association captive insurance company;
(d)  a sponsored captive insurance company;
(e)  an industrial insured captive insurance company;
(f)  a captive reinsurance company;
(g)  a special purpose captive insurance company; or
(h)  a special purpose financial captive insurance company.
(9)  "Captive reinsurance company" means a reinsurer that is:
(a)  formed or has a certificate of authority pursuant to this chapter;
(b)  wholly owned by a qualifying reinsurer parent company; and
(c)  a stock corporation.
(10)  "Common ownership and control" means that two or more captive insurance
companies are owned or controlled by the same person or group of persons as
follows:
(a)  in the case of a captive insurance company that is a stock corporation,
the direct or indirect ownership of 80% or more of the outstanding voting
stock of the stock corporation;
(b)  in the case of a captive insurance company that is a mutual corporation,
the direct or indirect ownership of 80% or more of the surplus and the voting
power of the mutual corporation;
(c)  in the case of a captive insurance company that is a limited liability
company, the direct or indirect ownership by the same member or members of 80%
or more of the membership interests in the limited liability company; or
(d)  in the case of a sponsored captive insurance company, a protected cell is
a separate captive insurance company owned and controlled by the protected
cell's participant, only if:
(i)  the participant is the only participant with respect to the protected
cell; and
(ii)  the participant is the sponsor or is affiliated with the sponsor of the
sponsored captive insurance company through common ownership and control.
(11)  "Commissioner" means the Insurance Commissioner or the commissioner's
designee.
(12)  "Consolidated debt to total capital ratio" means the ratio of Subsection
(12)(a) to (b).
(a)  This Subsection (12)(a) is an amount equal to the sum of all debts and
hybrid capital instruments including:
(i)  all borrowings from depository institutions;
(ii)  all senior debt;
(iii)  all subordinated debts;
(iv)  all trust preferred shares; and
(v)  all other hybrid capital instruments that are not included in the
determination of consolidated GAAP net worth issued and outstanding.
(b)  This Subsection (12)(b) is an amount equal to the sum of:
(i)  total capital consisting of all debts and hybrid capital instruments as
described in Subsection (12)(a); and
(ii)  shareholders' equity determined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles for reporting to the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission.
(13)  "Consolidated GAAP net worth" means the consolidated shareholders'
equity determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
for reporting to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
(14)  "Controlled unaffiliated business" means a business entity:
(a) (i)  in the case of a pure captive insurance company, that is not in the
corporate system of a parent or the parent's affiliate; or
(ii)  in the case of an industrial insured captive insurance company, that is
not in the corporate system of an industrial insured or an affiliated company
of the industrial insured;
(b) (i)  in the case of a pure captive insurance company, that has a
contractual relationship with a parent or affiliate; or
(ii)  in the case of an industrial insured captive insurance company, that has
a contractual relationship with an industrial insured or an affiliated company
of the industrial insured; and
(c)  whose risks are managed by one of the following in accordance with
Subsection 31A-37-106(1)(k):
(i)  a pure captive insurance company; or
(ii)  an industrial insured captive insurance company.
(15)  "Department" means the Insurance Department.
(16)  "Industrial insured" means an insured:
(a)  that produces insurance:
(i)  by the services of a full-time employee acting as a risk manager or
insurance manager; or
(ii) using the services of a regularly and continuously qualified insurance
consultant;
(b)  whose aggregate annual premiums for insurance on all risks total at least
$25,000; and
(c)  that has at least 25 full-time employees.
(17)  "Industrial insured captive insurance company" means a business entity
that:
(a)  insures risks of the industrial insureds that comprise the industrial
insured group; and
(b)  may insure the risks of:
(i)  an affiliated company of an industrial insured; or
(ii)  a controlled unaffiliated business of:
(A)  an industrial insured; or
(B)  an affiliated company of an industrial insured.
(18)  "Industrial insured group" means:
(a)  a group of industrial insureds that collectively:
(i)  own, control, or hold with power to vote all of the outstanding voting
securities of an industrial insured captive insurance company incorporated as
a stock insurer; or
(ii)  have complete voting control over an industrial insured captive
insurance company incorporated as a mutual insurer;
(b)  a group that is:
(i)  created under the Product Liability Risk Retention Act of 1981, 15 U.S.C.
Section 3901 et seq., as amended, as a corporation or other limited liability
association; and
(ii)  taxable under this title as a:
(A)  stock corporation; or
(B)  mutual insurer; or
(c)  a group that has complete voting control over an industrial captive
insurance company formed as a limited liability company.
(19)  "Member organization" means a person that belongs to an association.
(20)  "Parent" means a person that directly or indirectly owns, controls, or
holds with power to vote more than 50% of:
(a)  the outstanding voting securities of a pure captive insurance company; or
(b)  the pure captive insurance company, if the pure captive insurance company
is formed as a limited liability company.
(21)  "Participant" means an entity that is insured by a sponsored captive
insurance company:
(a)  if the losses of the participant are limited through a participant
contract to the assets of a protected cell; and
(b)(i)  the entity is permitted to be a participant under Section 31A-37-403;
or
(ii)  the entity is an affiliate of an entity permitted to be a participant
under Section 31A-37-403.
(22)  "Participant contract" means a contract by which a sponsored captive
insurance company:
(a)  insures the risks of a participant; and
(b)  limits the losses of the participant to the assets of a protected cell.
(23)  "Protected cell" means a separate account established and maintained by
a sponsored captive insurance company for one participant.
(24)  "Pure captive insurance company" means a business entity that insures
risks of a parent or affiliate of the business entity.
(25)  "Qualifying reinsurer parent company" means a reinsurer:
(a)  authorized to write reinsurance by this state; and
(b)  that has:
(i)  a consolidated GAAP net worth of not less than $500,000,000; and
(ii)  a consolidated debt to total capital ratio not greater than .50.
(26)  "Special purpose financial captive insurance company" is as defined in
Section 31A-37a-102.
(27)  "Sponsor" means an entity that:
(a)  meets the requirements of Section 31A-37-402; and
(b)  is approved by the commissioner to:
(i)  provide all or part of the capital and surplus required by applicable
law; and
(ii)  organize and operate a sponsored captive insurance company.
(28)  "Sponsored captive insurance company" means a captive insurance company:
(a)  in which the minimum capital and surplus required by applicable law is
provided by one or more sponsors;
(b)  that is formed or holding a certificate of authority under this chapter;
(c)  that insures the risks of a separate participant through the contract;
and
(d)  that segregates each participant's liability through one or more
protected cells.
(29)  "Treasury rates" means the United States Treasury strip asked yield as
published in the Wall Street Journal as of a balance sheet date.
