31A-37-502.   Examination.

(1) (a)  As provided in this section, the commissioner or a person appointed by the commissioner, shall examine each captive insurance company in each three-year period.

(b)  The three-year period described in Subsection (1)(a) shall be determined on the basis of three full annual accounting periods of operation.

(c)  The examination is to be made as of:

(i)  December 31 of the full three-year period; or

(ii)  the last day of the month of an annual accounting period authorized for a captive insurance company under this section.

(d)  In addition to an examination required under this Subsection (1), the commissioner, or a person appointed by the commissioner may examine a captive insurance company whenever the commissioner determines it to be prudent.

(2)  During an examination under this section the commissioner, or a person appointed by the commissioner, shall thoroughly inspect and examine the affairs of the captive insurance company to ascertain:

(a)  the financial condition of the captive insurance company;

(b)  the ability of the captive insurance company to fulfill the obligations of the captive insurance company; and

(c)  whether the captive insurance company has complied with this chapter.

(3)  The commissioner upon application may enlarge the three-year period described in Subsection (1) to five years, if a captive insurance company is subject to a comprehensive annual audit during that period:

(a)  of a scope satisfactory to the commissioner; and

(b)  performed by independent auditors approved by the commissioner.

(4)  The commissioner may accept a comprehensive annual independent audit in lieu of an examination:

(a)  of a scope satisfactory to the commissioner; and

(b)  performed by an independent auditor approved by the commissioner.

(5)  A captive insurance company that is inspected and examined under this section shall pay, as provided in Subsection 31A-37-202(6)(b), the expenses and charges of an inspection and examination.

