46-1-2.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Acknowledgment" means a notarial act in which a notary certifies that a signer, whose identity is personally known to the notary or proven on the basis of satisfactory evidence, has admitted, in the presence of the notary, to voluntarily signing a document for the document's stated purpose.

(2)  "Commission" means:

(a)  to empower to perform notarial acts; and

(b)  the written authority to perform those acts.

(3)  "Copy certification" means a notarial act in which a notary certifies that a photocopy is an accurate copy of a document that is neither a public record nor publicly recorded.

(4)  "Electronic signature" has the same meaning as provided under Section 46-4-102.

(5)  "Jurat" means a notarial act in which a notary certifies that a signer, whose identity is personally known to the notary or proven on the basis of satisfactory evidence, has made, in the notary's presence, a voluntary signature and taken an oath or affirmation vouching for the truthfulness of the signed document.

(6)  "Notarial act" and "notarization" mean any act that a notary is empowered to perform under this section.

(7)  "Notarial certificate" means the part of or attachment to a notarized document for completion by the notary and bearing the notary's signature and seal.

(8)  "Notary" means any person commissioned to perform notarial acts under this chapter.

(9)  "Oath" or "affirmation" means a notarial act in which a notary certifies that a person made a vow or affirmation in the presence of the notary on penalty of perjury.

(10)  "Official misconduct" means a notary's performance of any act prohibited or failure to perform any act mandated by this chapter or by any other law in connection with a notarial act.

(11)  "Personal knowledge of identity" means familiarity with an individual resulting from interactions with that individual over a period of time sufficient to eliminate every reasonable doubt that the individual has the identity claimed.

(12) (a)  "Satisfactory evidence of identity" means identification of an individual based on:

(i)  valid personal identification with the individual's photograph, signature, and physical description issued by the United States government, any state within the United States, or a foreign government;

(ii)  a valid passport issued by any nation; or

(iii)  the oath or affirmation of a credible person who is personally known to the notary and who personally knows the individual.

(b)  "Satisfactory evidence of identity" does not include:

(i)  a driving privilege card under Subsection 53-3-207(10); or

(ii)  another document that is not considered valid for identification.



Amended by Chapter 315, 2009 General Session

