46-1-16.   Official signature -- Official seal -- Seal impression.

(1)  In completing a notarial act, a notary shall sign on the notarial certificate exactly and only the name indicated on the notary's commission.

(2) (a)  A notary shall keep an official notarial seal that is the exclusive property of the notary and that may not be used by any other person.

(b)  Upon the resignation, revocation, or expiration of a notarial commission, the seal shall be destroyed.

(c)  Each notarial seal obtained by a notary on or after July 1, 2003 shall use purple ink.

(3) (a)  A new seal shall be obtained for any new commission or recommission.

(b)  A new seal shall be obtained if the notary changes the notary's name of record at any time during the notary's commission.

(c)  The seal impression shall be affixed near the notary's official signature on a notarial certificate and shall include a sharp, legible, and photographically reproducible ink impression of the notarial seal that consists of:

(i)  the notary public's name exactly as indicated on the notary's commission;

(ii)  the words "notary public," "state of Utah," and "my commission expires on (commission expiration date)";

(iii)  for a notary seal issued on or after July 1, 2008, the notary's commission number, exactly as indicated on the notary's commission;

(iv)  a facsimile of the great seal of the state; and

(v)  a rectangular border no larger than one inch by two and one-half inches surrounding the required words and seal.

(4)  An embossed seal impression that is not photographically reproducible may be used in addition to, but not in place of, the photographically reproducible seal required in this section.

(5)  The notarial seal shall be affixed in a manner that does not obscure or render illegible any information or signatures contained in the document or in the notarial certificate.

(6)  A notary acknowledgment on an annexation, subdivision, or other map or plat is considered complete without the imprint of the notary's official seal if:

(a)  the notary signs the acknowledgment in permanent ink; and

(b)  the following appear below or immediately adjacent to the notary's signature:

(i)  the notary's full name and commission number appears exactly as indicated on the notary's commission;

(ii)  the words "A notary public commissioned in Utah"; and

(iii)  the expiration date of the notary's commission.

(7)  A notary acknowledgment on an electronic message or document is considered complete without the imprint of the notary's seal if the following information appears electronically within the message:

(a)  the notary's full name and commission number appearing exactly as indicated on the notary's commission; and

(b)  the words "notary public," "state of Utah," and "my commission expires on______ (date)".

