20A-5-401.   Official register -- Preparation -- Contents.

(1) (a)  Before the registration days for each regular general, municipal general, regular primary, municipal primary, or Western States Presidential Primary election, each county clerk shall prepare an official register of voters for each voting precinct that will participate in the election.

(b)  The county clerk shall ensure that the official register is prepared for the alphabetical entry of names and contains entry fields to provide for the following information:

(i)  registered voter's name;

(ii)  party affiliation;

(iii)  grounds for challenge;

(iv)  name of person challenging a voter;

(v)  primary, November, special;

(vi)  date of birth;

(vii)  place of birth;

(viii)  place of current residence;

(ix)  street address;

(x)  zip code;

(xi)  identification and provisional ballot information as required under Subsection (1)(d); and

(xii)  space for the voter to sign his name for each election.

(c)  When preparing the official register for the Western States Presidential Primary, the county clerk shall include:

(i)  an entry field to record the name of the political party whose ballot the voter voted; and

(ii)  an entry field for the poll worker to record changes in the voter's party affiliation.

(d)  When preparing the official register for any regular general election, municipal general election, statewide special election, local special election, regular primary election, municipal primary election, local district election, or election for federal office, the county clerk shall include:

(i)  an entry field for the poll worker to record the type of identification provided by the voter;

(ii)  a column for the poll worker to record the provisional envelope ballot number for voters who receive a provisional ballot; and

(iii)  a space for the poll worker to record the type of identification that was provided by voters who receive a provisional ballot.

(2) (a) (i)  For regular and municipal elections, primary elections, regular municipal elections, local district elections, and bond elections, the county clerk shall make an official register only for voting precincts affected by the primary, municipal, local district, or bond election.

(ii)  If a polling place to be used in a bond election serves both voters residing in the local political subdivision calling the bond election and voters residing outside of that local political subdivision, the official register shall designate whether each voter resides in or outside of the local political subdivision.

(iii)  Each county clerk, with the assistance of the clerk of each affected local district, shall provide a detailed map or an indication on the registration list or other means to enable a poll worker to determine the voters entitled to vote at an election of local district officers.

(b)  Municipalities shall pay the costs of making the official register for municipal elections.



Amended by Chapter 45, 2009 General Session

