20A-5-402.7.   Voting Equipment Selection Committee.
(1)  As used in this section, "new voting equipment system" means voting
equipment that is operated in a materially different way or that functions in
a materially different way than the equipment being replaced.
(2)  Before selecting or purchasing a new voting equipment system after
January 1, 2007, the lieutenant governor shall:
(a)  appoint a Voting Equipment Selection Committee; and
(b)  ensure that the committee includes persons having experience in:
(i)  election procedures and administration;
(ii)  computer technology;
(iii)  data security;
(iv)  auditing; and
(v)  access for persons with disabilities.
(3) (a) (i)  A member of the committee who is not a government employee shall
receive no compensation or benefits for the member's services, but may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official
duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections
63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A member may decline to receive per diem and expenses for the member's
services.
(b) (i)  A state government officer or employee member who does not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from the member's agency for the member's
service may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the
member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance
under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A state government officer or employee member may decline to receive per
diem for the member's service.
(4)  The lieutenant governor shall select a chair from the committee
membership.
(5)  The lieutenant governor may fill any vacancies that occur on the
committee.
(6)  The lieutenant governor's office shall provide staffing for the
committee.
(7)  The Voting Equipment Selection Committee shall:
(a)  evaluate new voting equipment systems proposed for purchase by the state;
and
(b)  provide information and recommendations to assist the lieutenant governor
with the purchase of new voting equipment systems.
(8)  The lieutenant governor may designate individuals, including committee
members, to inspect and review proprietary software as part of an evaluation
of new voting equipment systems under consideration for purchase.
(9)  Before making any selection or purchase, the lieutenant governor shall
provide for a period of public review and comment on new voting equipment
systems under consideration for purchase by the state.
