32B-8-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Boundary of a resort building" means the physical boundary of the land reasonably related to a resort building and any structure or improvement to that land as determined by the commission.

(2)  "Dwelling" means a portion of a resort building:

(a)  owned by one or more individuals;

(b)  that is used or designated for use as a residence by one or more persons; and

(c)  that may be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a period of no longer than 30 consecutive days by a person who uses it for a residence.

(3)  "Engaged in the management of the resort" may be defined by the commission by rule.

(4)  "Invitee" means an individual who in accordance with Subsection 32B-8-304(12) is authorized to use a resort spa by a host who is:

(a)  a resident; or

(b)  a public customer.

(5)  "Provisions applicable to a sublicense" means:

(a)  for a full-service restaurant sublicense, Chapter 6, Part 2, Full-service Restaurant License;

(b)  for a limited-service restaurant sublicense, Chapter 6, Part 3, Limited-service Restaurant License;

(c)  for a club sublicense, Chapter 6, Part 4, Club License;

(d)  for an on-premise banquet sublicense, Chapter 6, Part 6, On-premise Banquet License;

(e)  for an on-premise beer retailer sublicense, Chapter 6, Part 7, On-premise Beer Retailer License; and

(f)  for a resort spa sublicense, Part 3, Resort Spa Sublicense.

(6)  "Public customer" means an individual who holds a customer card in accordance with Subsection 32B-8-304(13).

(7)  "Resident" means an individual who:

(a)  owns a dwelling located within a resort building; or

(b)  rents lodging accommodations for 30 consecutive days or less from:

(i)  an owner of a dwelling described in Subsection (7)(a); or

(ii)  the resort licensee.

(8)  "Resort" means a location:

(a)  on which is located one resort building; and

(b)  that is affiliated with a ski area that physically touches the boundary of the resort building.

(9)  "Resort building" means a building:

(a)  that is primarily operated to provide dwellings or lodging accommodations;

(b)  that has at least 150 units that consist of a dwelling or lodging accommodations;

(c)  that consists of at least 400,000 square feet:

(i)  including only the building itself; and

(ii)  not including areas such as above ground surface parking; and

(d)  of which at least 50% of the units described in Subsection (9)(b) consist of dwellings owned by a person other than the resort licensee.

(10)  "Resort spa" means a spa, as defined by rule by the commission, that is within the boundary of a resort building.

(11)  "Sublicense" means:

(a)  a full-service restaurant sublicense;

(b)  a limited-service restaurant sublicense;

(c)  a club sublicense;

(d)  an on-premise banquet sublicense;

(e)  an on-premise beer retailer sublicense; and

(f)  a resort spa sublicense.

(12)  "Sublicense premises" means a building, enclosure, or room used pursuant to a sublicense in connection with the storage, sale, furnishing, or consumption of an alcoholic product, unless otherwise defined in this title or in the rules made by the commission.

