32B-8-202.   Specific licensing requirements for resort license.

(1)  To obtain a resort license, in addition to complying with Chapter 5, Part 2, Retail Licensing Process, a person shall submit with the written application:

(a)  the current business license for each sublicense, if the business license is separate from the person's business license;

(b)  evidence:

(i)  of proximity of the resort building to any community location, with proximity requirements being governed by Section 32B-1-202;

(ii)  that each of the four or more sublicense premises is entirely within the boundaries of the resort building; and

(iii)  that the building designated in the application as the resort building qualifies as a resort building;

(c)  a description and boundary map of the resort building;

(d)  a description, floor plan, and boundary map of each sublicense premises designating:

(i)  any location at which the person proposes that an alcoholic product be stored; and

(ii)  a designated location on the sublicense premises from which the person proposes that an alcoholic product be sold, furnished, or consumed;

(e)  evidence that the resort license person carries dramshop insurance coverage equal to the sum of at least $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate to cover both the general resort license and each sublicense; and

(f)  a signed consent form stating that the person will permit any authorized representative of the commission, department, or any law enforcement officer to have unrestricted right to enter the boundary of the resort building and each sublicense premises.

(2) (a)  A resort license expires on October 31 of each year.

(b)  To renew a person's resort license, the person shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 5, Part 2, Retail Licensing Process, by no later than September 30.

(3) (a)  The nonrefundable application fee for a resort license is $300.

(b)  The initial license fee for a resort license is calculated as follows:

(i)  $10,000 if four sublicenses are being applied for under the resort license; or

(ii)  if more than four sublicenses are being applied for under the resort license, the sum of:

(A)  $10,000; and

(B)  $2,000 for each sublicense in excess of four sublicenses for which the person is applying.

(c)  The renewal fee for a resort license is $1,000 for each sublicense under the resort license.

(4) (a)  The bond amount required for a resort license is the penal sum of $25,000.

(b)  A resort licensee is not required to have a separate bond for each sublicense, except that the aggregate of the bonds posted by the resort licensee shall cover each sublicense under the resort license.

(5)  The commission may not issue a resort license for a resort building that does not meet the proximity requirements of Section 32B-1-202.



Amended by Chapter 334, 2011 General Session

