53B-2a-103.   Utah College of Applied Technology Board of Trustees -- Membership -- Terms -- Vacancies -- Oath -- Officers -- Quorum -- Committees -- Compensation.

(1)  There is created the Utah College of Applied Technology Board of Trustees, composed of the following members:

(a)  one member of the State Board of Education appointed by the chair of the State Board of Education, to serve as a nonvoting member;

(b)  one member of the State Board of Regents appointed by the chair of the State Board of Regents, to serve as a nonvoting member;

(c)  one member representing business and industry employers from the campus board of directors of each applied technology college campus appointed by a majority vote of the business and industry employer members of the campus board;

(d)  one member representing business and industry employers from the Snow College career and technical education advisory committee appointed by a majority of the business and industry members of the advisory committee;

(e)  one member representing business and industry employers from the Utah State University-College of Eastern Utah career and technical education advisory committee appointed by a majority of the business and industry employer members of the advisory committee;

(f)  one member representing business and industry employers from the Salt Lake Community College School of Applied Technology Board of Directors appointed by a majority of the business and industry employer members of the board of directors;

(g)  one business or industry employer representative appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate from nominations submitted by the speaker of the House of Representatives and president of the Senate;

(h)  one representative of union craft, trade, or apprenticeship programs that prepare workers for employment in career and technical education fields, appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate;

(i)  one representative of non-union craft, trade, or apprenticeship programs that prepare workers for employment in career and technical education fields, appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate;

(j)  the commissioner of higher education; and

(k)  the executive director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development or the executive director's designee.

(2) (a)  In making appointments to the board of trustees, the governor shall consider:

(i)  individuals from the state at large with due consideration for geographical representation;

(ii)  individuals recognized for their knowledge and expertise; and

(iii)  individuals who represent current and emerging business and industry sectors of the state.

(b)  Appointments to the board shall be made on a nonpartisan basis.

(3) (a)  Except as provided under Subsection (3)(b), members of the board of trustees shall be appointed commencing on July 1 of each odd-numbered year to a four-year term.

(b)  Initial terms of the board members beginning on July 1, 2009 shall be staggered with two-year and four-year terms so that approximately one-half of the members' terms will expire in any odd-numbered year.

(c)  An appointed member holds office until a successor is appointed and qualified.

(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(5) (a)  Each member shall take the official oath of office prior to assuming the office.

(b)  The oath shall be filed with the Division of Archives and Records Services.

(6)  The board of trustees shall elect a chair and vice chair, who serve for two years and until their successors are elected and qualified.

(7) (a)  The board of trustees may enact bylaws for its own government, including provision for regular meetings.

(b) (i)  The board of trustees may provide for an executive committee in its bylaws.

(ii)  If established, the committee shall have full authority of the board of trustees to act upon routine matters during the interim between board of trustees meetings.

(iii)  The committee may act on nonroutine matters only under extraordinary and emergency circumstances.

(iv)  The committee shall report its activities to the board of trustees at its next regular meeting following the action.

(8)  A quorum shall be required to conduct business which shall consist of a majority of voting board of trustee members.

(9)  The board of trustees may establish advisory committees.

(10)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 211, 2010 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 286, 2010 General Session

