53B-2a-109.   Campus boards of directors -- Terms -- Quorum -- Chair --
Compensation.
(1) (a)  At the first meeting of a campus board of directors after July 1,
2009:
(i)  the representatives from the local school boards shall divide up their
positions so that approximately half of them serve for two-year terms and half
serve for four-year terms; and
(ii)  the representatives from business and industry employers shall divide up
their positions so that approximately half of them serve for two-year terms
and half serve for four-year terms.
(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(a), individuals appointed to a
campus board of directors shall serve four-year terms.
(2)  The original appointing authority shall fill any vacancies that occur on
the campus board of directors.
(3)  A majority of the campus board of directors is a quorum.
(4)  A campus board of directors shall elect a chair from its membership.
(5) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official duties from the
campus board of directors at the rates established by the Division of Finance
under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  Higher education members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties from
the campus board of directors at the rates established by the Division of
Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Higher education members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(c) (i)  Members appointed by local school boards who do not receive salary,
per diem, or expenses from the entity that they represent for their service
may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their
official duties from the campus board of directors at the rates established by
the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local school board members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(6) (a)  A campus board of directors may enact bylaws for its own government,
including provision for regular meetings, that are in accordance with the
policies of the Utah College of Applied Technology.
(b) (i)  The campus board of directors may provide for an executive committee
in its bylaws.
(ii)  If established, the committee shall have the full authority of the
campus board of directors to act upon routine matters during the interim
between board meetings.
(iii)  The committee may act on nonroutine matters only under extraordinary
and emergency circumstances.
(iv)  The committee shall report its activities to the campus board of
directors at its next regular meeting following the action.
(7)  A campus board of directors may establish advisory committees.
