26-2-2.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Advanced practice registered nurse" means a person licensed to practice
as an advanced practice registered nurse in this state under Title 58, Chapter
31b, Nurse Practice Act.
(2)  "Custodial funeral service director" means a funeral service director
who:
(a)  is employed by a licensed funeral establishment; and
(b)  has custody of a dead body.
(3)  "Dead body" or "decedent" means a human body or parts of the human body
from the condition of which it reasonably may be concluded that death
occurred.
(4)  "Dead fetus" means a product of human conception:
(a)  of 20 weeks' gestation or more, calculated from the date the last normal
menstrual period began to the date of delivery; and
(b)  that was not born alive.
(5)  "Declarant father" means a male who claims to be the genetic father of a
child, and, along with the biological mother, signs a voluntary declaration of
paternity to establish the child’s paternity.
(6)  "Dispositioner" means:
(a)  a person designated in a written instrument, under Subsection
58-9-602(1), as having the right and duty to control the disposition of the
decedent, if the person voluntarily acts as the dispositioner; or
(b)  the next of kin of the decedent, if:
(i) (A)  a person has not been designated as described in Subsection (6)(a);
or
(B)  the person described in Subsection (6)(a) is unable or unwilling to
exercise the right and duty described in Subsection (6)(a); and
(ii)  the next of kin voluntarily acts as the dispositioner.
(7)  "File" means the submission of a completed certificate or other similar
document, record, or report as provided under this chapter for registration by
the state registrar or a local registrar.
(8)  "Funeral service director" is as defined in Section 58-9-102.
(9)  "Health care facility" is as defined in Section 26-21-2.
(10)  "Health care professional" means a physician or nurse practitioner.
(11)  "Licensed funeral establishment" means a funeral service establishment,
as defined in Section 58-9-102, that is licensed under Title 58, Chapter 9,
Funeral Services Licensing Act.
(12)  "Live birth" means the birth of a child who shows evidence of life after
the child is entirely outside of the mother.
(13)  "Local registrar" means a person appointed under Subsection
26-2-3(2)(b).
(14)  "Nurse practitioner" means an advanced practice registered nurse
specializing as a nurse practitioner who:
(a)  has completed an education program regarding the completion of a
certificate of death developed by the department by administrative rule
adopted in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act;
(b)  is in independent practice or a group practice; and
(c)  is not employed by a health care facility licensed under Chapter 21,
Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act.
(15)  "Physician" means a person licensed to practice as a physician or
osteopath in this state under Title 58, Chapter 67, Utah Medical Practice Act
or Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act.
(16)  "Presumed father" means the father of a child conceived or born during a
marriage as defined in Section 30-1-17.2.
(17)  "Registration" or "register" means acceptance by the local or state
registrar of a certificate and incorporation of the certificate into the
permanent records of the state.
(18)  "State registrar" means the state registrar of vital records appointed
under Subsection 26-2-3(1)(e).
(19)  "Vital records" means:
(a)  registered certificates or reports of birth, death, fetal death,
marriage, divorce, dissolution of marriage, or annulment;
(b)  amendments to any of the registered certificates or reports described in
Subsection (19)(a); and
(c)  other similar documents.
(20)  "Vital statistics" means the data derived from registered certificates
and reports of birth, death, fetal death, induced termination of pregnancy,
marriage, divorce, dissolution of marriage, or annulment.
