26-2-9.   Birth certificates -- Petition for issuance of delayed certificate
-- Court procedure.
(1)  If registration of a certificate of birth under Section 26-2-8 is denied,
the person seeking registration may bring an action by a verified petition in
the Utah district court encompassing where the petitioner resides or in the
district encompassing Salt Lake City.  The petition shall request an order
establishing a record of the date and place of the birth and the parentage of
the person whose birth is to be registered.
(2)  The petition shall be on a form furnished by the state registrar and
shall allege:
(a)  the person for whom registration of a delayed certificate is sought was
born in this state and is still living;
(b)  no registered certificate of birth of the person can be found in the
state office of vital statistics or the office of any local registrar;
(c)  diligent efforts by the petitioner have failed to obtain the evidence
required by  department rule; and
(d)  the state registrar has denied the petitioner's request to register a
delayed certificate of birth.
(3)  The petition shall be accompanied by a written statement of the state
registrar indicating the reasons for denial of registration and all
documentary evidence which was submitted in support of registration.
(4)  The court shall fix a time and place for hearing the petition and shall
give the state registrar 15 days notice of the hearing.  The state registrar
or his authorized representative may appear and testify at the hearing.
(5) (a)  If the court finds the person for whom registration of a certificate
of birth is sought under Section 26-2-8 was born in this state, it shall make
findings as to the place and date of birth, parentage, and other findings as
may be required and shall issue an order, on a form prescribed and furnished
by the state registrar, to establish a court-ordered delayed certificate of
birth.  The order shall include the birth data to be registered, a description
of the evidence presented, and the date of the court's action.
(b)  The clerk of the court shall forward each order to the state registrar
not later than the  tenth day of the calendar month following the month in
which the order was entered.  The order shall be registered by the state
registrar and constitutes the certificate of birth.
