17D-3-301.   Board of supervisors -- Number -- Term -- Chair and officers -- Quorum -- Compensation.

(1)  Each conservation district shall be governed by a board of supervisors.

(2) (a)  The board of supervisors of a conservation district consists of five members elected as provided in this part, at least three of whom shall be private agricultural land operators.

(b)  If the board of supervisors divides the conservation district into watershed voting areas under Section 17D-3-308, at least one member of the board of supervisors shall reside within each watershed voting area.

(3) (a)  The term of office of each member of a board of supervisors is four years.

(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (3)(a), if multiple conservation districts are consolidated or a single conservation district divided or dissolved under Part 2, Creation, Consolidation, Division, and Dissolution of Conservation Districts:

(i)  the term of each member of the board of supervisors of the consolidated conservation districts or the divided or dissolved conservation district terminates immediately upon consolidation, division, or dissolution; and

(ii) (A)  the commission shall hold an election, as provided in this part, for all board of supervisors members of the consolidated conservation district or divided conservation districts, as the case may be; and

(B)  the term of the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes at an election under Subsection (3)(b)(ii)(A) shall be four years, and the term of the three candidates receiving the next highest number of votes shall be two years.

(4)  The board of supervisors shall elect a chair from among their number, and may elect other officers from among their number that the board considers necessary.

(5)  A majority of the board of supervisors constitutes a quorum for the transaction of board business, and action by a majority of a quorum present at a meeting of the board constitutes action of the board.

(6)  For performing official duties, each member of the board of supervisors of a conservation district shall receive:

(a)  compensation for travel and time, as fixed by the commission; and

(b)  actual and necessary expenses.



Enacted by Chapter 360, 2008 General Session

