75-7-512.   Allowance of claims.
(1)  As to claims presented in the manner described in Section 75-7-510 and
within the time limit prescribed in Section 75-7-509, the trustee may mail a
notice to any claimant stating that the claim has been allowed or disallowed.
If, after allowing or disallowing a claim, the trustee changes the decision
concerning the claim, the trustee shall notify the claimant.  The trustee may
not change a disallowance of a claim after the time for the claimant to file a
petition for allowance or to commence a proceeding on the claim has expired
and the claim has been barred.  If the notice of disallowance warns the
claimant of the impending bar, a claim which is disallowed in whole or in part
by the trustee is barred so far as not allowed, unless the claimant seeks a
court-ordered allowance by filing a petition for allowance in the court or by
commencing a proceeding against the trustee not later than 60 days after the
mailing of the notice of disallowance or partial allowance.  If the trustee
fails to mail notice to a claimant of action on the claim within 60 days after
the time for original presentation of the claim has expired, this failure has
the effect of a notice of allowance.
(2)  Upon the petition of the trustee or a claimant in a proceeding for this
purpose, the court may order any claim presented to the trustee or trustee's
attorney in a timely manner and not barred by Subsection (1) to be allowed in
whole or in part.  Notice of this proceeding shall be given to the claimant,
the trustee, and those other persons interested in the trust estate as the
court may direct by order at the time the proceeding is commenced.
(3)  A judgment in a proceeding in another court against the trustee to
enforce a claim against a deceased settlor's estate is a court-ordered
allowance of the claim.
(4)  Unless otherwise provided in any judgment in another court entered
against a trustee, allowed claims bear interest at the legal rate for the
period commencing six months after the deceased settlor's date of death unless
based on a contract making a provision for interest, in which case they bear
interest in accordance with that provision.
