63A-2-101.5.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Division" means the Division of Purchasing and General Services created under Section 63A-2-101.

(2)  "Federal surplus property" means surplus property of the federal government of the United States.

(3)  "Information technology equipment" means equipment that is designed to electronically manipulate, store, or transfer a form of data.

(4)  "Inventory property" means property in the possession of the division that is available for purchase by an agency or the public.

(5)  "Judicial district" means a geographic district established by Section 78A-1-102.

(6)  "Person with a disability" means a person with a severe, chronic disability that:

(a)  is attributable to a mental or physical impairment or a combination of mental and physical impairments; and

(b)  is likely to continue indefinitely.

(7)  "Personal handheld electronic device":

(a)  means an electronic device that is designed for handheld use and permits the user to store or access information, the primary value of which is specific to the user of the device; and

(b)  includes a mobile phone, pocket personal computer, personal digital assistant, or similar device.

(8)  "Property act" means the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 40 U.S.C. Sec. 549.

(9)  "State surplus property" means surplus property that is not:

(a)  a vehicle; or

(b)  federal surplus property.

(10)  "State surplus property contractor" means the person described in Section 63A-2-410 that the state contracts with to administer the state's program for the disposition of state surplus property.

(11) (a)  "Surplus property" means property that an agency:

(i)  intends to divest itself of; and

(ii)  has acquired by purchase, seizure, or donation.

(b)  "Surplus property" does not include:

(i)  real property;

(ii)  assets of the School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration; or

(iii)  an aluminum can or an item made primarily of paper, plastic, or cardboard that is:

(A)  discarded; and

(B)  recyclable.



Amended by Chapter 151, 2013 General Session

