49-13-303.   Supplemental benefit established -- Defined contribution plan
options -- Contribution by employer and employee -- Immediate vesting of
contributions -- Plans to be separate -- Tax-qualified status of plans.
(1) (a)  Participating employers in Level A under Section 49-13-301, which are
participating educational institutions or participating employers whose
activities are associated with participating educational institutions, shall
make a nonelective contribution on behalf of each of its regular full-time
employees who are members of this system an amount equal to at least 1.5% of
the member's compensation to a defined contribution plan qualified under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code which is selected by the regular
full-time employee and which is sponsored by the board, by that Level A
employer, or by a group of similar Level A employers, and which has been
grandfathered under Section 1116 of the Federal Tax Reform Act of 1986.
(b)  All other Level A participating employers under Section 49-13-301 shall
make a nonelective contribution on behalf of each of its regular full-time
employees who are members of this system an amount equal to at least 1.5% of
the member's compensation to the defined contribution plan qualified under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code which is sponsored by the board.
(c)  The member or participating employer may make additional payments to
either the qualified 401(k) plan which receives the 1.5% employer contribution
described in this Subsection (1), or to any other defined contribution plan
qualified under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code which is selected
by the member and sponsored by the board, that Level A employer, or a group of
similar Level A employers, and which has been grandfathered under Section 1116
of the Federal Tax Reform Act of 1986.
(2) (a)  Participating employers in Level B under Section 49-13-301 may make
nonelective contributions on behalf of each of its regular full-time employees
who are members of this system to the 401(k) defined contribution plan
sponsored by the board or to a qualified plan sponsored by the participating
employer which  has been grandfathered  under Section 1116 of the Federal Tax
Reform Act of 1986.
(b)  The member may also make voluntary deferrals to the same 401(k) plan
which the member selected to receive the employer contribution described in
Subsection (2)(a).
(3)  Each qualified defined contribution 401(k) plan is separate and distinct
from any other qualified defined contribution 401(k) plan for all purposes,
including purposes of fiduciary liability and plan administration.
(4)  A member may not make voluntary deferrals to any other qualified 401(k)
plan sponsored by a state or local government.
(5)  The total amount contributed by the participating employer and the member
under Subsection (1) or (2) vests to the member's benefit immediately and is
nonforfeitable.
(6)  The board may request from any other qualified 401(k) plan under
Subsection (1) or (2) any relevant information pertaining to the maintenance
of its tax qualification under the Internal Revenue Code.
(7)  The board may take any action which in its judgment is necessary to
maintain the tax-qualified status of its 401(k) defined contribution plan
under federal law.
