17-27a-404.   Public hearing by planning commission on proposed general plan
or amendment -- Notice -- Revisions to general plan or amendment -- Adoption
or rejection by legislative body.
(1) (a)  After completing its recommendation for a proposed general plan, or
proposal to amend the general plan, the planning commission shall schedule and
hold a public hearing on the proposed plan or amendment.
(b)  The planning commission shall provide notice of the public hearing, as
required by Section 17-27a-204.
(c)  After the public hearing, the planning commission may modify the proposed
general plan or amendment.
(2)  The planning commission shall forward the proposed general plan or
amendment to the legislative body.
(3) (a)  As provided by local ordinance and by Section 17-27a-204, the
legislative body shall provide notice of its intent to consider the general
plan proposal.
(b) (i)  In addition to the requirements of Subsections (1), (2), and (3)(a),
the legislative body shall hold a public hearing in Salt Lake City on
provisions of the proposed county plan regarding Subsection 17-27a-401(3).
The hearing procedure shall comply with this Subsection (3)(b).
(ii)  The hearing format shall allow adequate time for public comment at the
actual public hearing, and shall also allow for public comment in writing to
be submitted to the legislative body for not fewer than 90 days after the date
of the public hearing.
(c) (i)  The legislative body shall give notice of the hearing in accordance
with this Subsection (3) when the proposed plan provisions required by
Subsection 17-27a-401(3) are complete.
(ii)  Direct notice of the hearing shall be given, in writing, to the
governor, members of the state Legislature, executive director of the
Department of Environmental Quality, the state planning coordinator, the
Resource Development Coordinating Committee, and any other citizens or
entities who specifically request notice in writing.
(iii)  Public notice shall be given by publication:
(A)  in at least one major Utah newspaper having broad general circulation in
the state;
(B)  in at least one Utah newspaper having a general circulation focused
mainly on the county where the proposed high-level nuclear waste or greater
than class C radioactive waste site is to be located; and
(C) on the Utah Public Notice Website created in Section 63F-1-701.
(iv)  The notice shall be published to allow reasonable time for interested
parties and the state to evaluate the information regarding the provisions of
Subsection 17-27a-401(3), including:
(A)  in a newspaper described in Subsection (3)(c)(iii)(A), no less than 180
days before the date of the hearing to be held under this Subsection (3); and
(B)   publication described in Subsection (3)(c)(iii)(B) or (C) for 180 days
before the date of the hearing to be held under this Subsection (3).
(4) (a)  After the public hearing required under this section, the legislative
body may make any revisions to the proposed general plan that it considers
appropriate.
(b)  The legislative body shall respond in writing and in a substantive manner
to all those providing comments as a result of the hearing required by
Subsection (3).
(5) (a)  The county legislative body may adopt or reject the proposed general
plan or amendment either as proposed by the planning commission or after
making any revision the county legislative body considers appropriate.
(b)  If the county legislative body rejects the proposed general plan or
amendment, it may provide suggestions to the planning commission for its
consideration.
(6)  The legislative body shall adopt:
(a)  a land use element as provided in Subsection 17-27a-403(2)(a)(i);
(b)  a transportation and traffic circulation element as provided in
Subsection 17-27a-403(2)(a)(ii); and
(c)  after considering the factors included in Subsection 17-27a-403(2)(b), a
plan to provide a realistic opportunity to meet estimated needs for additional
moderate income housing if long-term projections for land use and development
occur.
