17-27a-507.   Exactions -- Exaction for water interest -- Requirement to offer to original owner property acquired by exaction.

(1)  A county may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a land use application, including, subject to Subsection (3), an exaction for a water interest, if:

(a)  an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each exaction; and

(b)  each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development.

(2)  If a land use authority imposes an exaction for another governmental entity:

(a)  the governmental entity shall request the exaction; and

(b)  the land use authority shall transfer the exaction to the governmental entity for which it was exacted.

(3) (a) (i)  A county or, if applicable, the county's culinary water authority shall base any exaction for a water interest on the culinary water authority's established calculations of projected water interest requirements.

(ii)  Upon an applicant's request, the culinary water authority shall provide the applicant with the basis for the culinary water authority's calculations under Subsection (3)(a)(i) on which an exaction for a water interest is based.

(b)  A county or its culinary water authority may not impose an exaction for a water interest if the culinary water authority's existing available water interests exceed the water interests needed to meet the reasonable future water requirement of the public, as determined under Subsection 73-1-4(2)(f).

(4) (a)  If a county plans to dispose of surplus real property under Section 17-50-312 that was acquired under this section and has been owned by the county for less than 15 years, the county shall first offer to reconvey the property, without receiving additional consideration, to the person who granted the property to the county.

(b)  A person to whom a county offers to reconvey property under Subsection (4)(a) has 90 days to accept or reject the county's offer.

(c)  If a person to whom a county offers to reconvey property declines the offer, the county may offer the property for sale.

(d)  Subsection (4)(a) does not apply to the disposal of property acquired by exaction by a community development or urban renewal agency.



Amended by Chapter 309, 2013 General Session

