17-27a-603.   Plat required when land is subdivided -- Approval of plat --
Recording plat.
(1)  Unless exempt under Section 17-27a-605 or excluded from the definition of
subdivision under Subsection 17-27a-103(48), whenever any land is laid out and
platted, the owner of the land shall provide an accurate plat that describes
or specifies:
(a)  a name or designation of the subdivision that is distinct from any plat
already recorded in the county recorder's office;
(b)  the boundaries, course, and dimensions of all of the parcels of ground
divided, by their boundaries, course, and extent, whether the owner proposes
that any parcel of ground is intended to be used as a street or for any other
public use, and whether any such area is reserved or proposed for dedication
for a public purpose;
(c)  the lot or unit reference, block or building reference, street or site
address, street name or coordinate address, acreage or square footage for all
parcels, units, or lots, and length and width of the blocks and lots intended
for sale; and
(d)  every existing right-of-way and easement grant of record for underground
facilities, as defined in Section 54-8a-2, and for other utility facilities.
(2) (a)  Subject to Subsections (3), (4), and (5), if the plat conforms to the
county's ordinances and this part and has been approved by the culinary water
authority and the sanitary sewer authority, the county shall approve the plat.
(b)  Counties are encouraged to receive a recommendation from the fire
authority before approving a plat.
(3)  The county may withhold an otherwise valid plat approval until the owner
of the land provides the legislative body with a tax clearance indicating that
all taxes, interest, and penalties owing on the land have been paid.
(4) (a)  The owner of the land shall acknowledge the plat before an officer
authorized by law to take the acknowledgment of conveyances of real estate and
shall obtain the signature of each individual designated by the county.
(b)  The surveyor making the plat shall certify that the surveyor:
(i)  holds a license in accordance with Title 58, Chapter 22, Professional
Engineers and Professional Land Surveyors Licensing Act;
(ii)  has completed a survey of the property described on the plat in
accordance with Section 17-23-17 and has verified all measurements; and
(iii)  has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
(c) (i)  As applicable, the owner or operator of the underground and utility
facilities shall approve the:
(A)  boundary, course, dimensions, and intended use of the right-of-way and
easement grants of record;
(B)  location of existing underground and utility facilities; and
(C)  conditions or restrictions governing the location of the facilities
within the right-of-way, and easement grants of records, and utility
facilities within the subdivision.
(ii)  The approval of an owner or operator under Subsection (4)(c)(i):
(A)  indicates only that the plat approximates the location of the existing
underground and utility facilities but does not warrant or verify their
precise location; and
(B)  does not affect a right that the owner or operator has under:
(I)  Title 54, Chapter 8a, Damage to Underground Utility Facilities;
(II)  a recorded easement or right-of-way;
(III)  the law applicable to prescriptive rights; or
(IV)  any other provision of law.
(5) (a)  After the plat has been acknowledged, certified, and approved, the
owner of the land shall, within the time period designated by ordinance,
record the plat in the county recorder's office in the county in which the
lands platted and laid out are situated.
(b)  An owner's failure to record a plat within the time period designated by
ordinance renders the plat voidable.
