17-27a-608.   Vacating, altering, or amending a subdivision plat.
(1) (a)  A fee owner of land, as shown on the last county assessment roll, in
a subdivision that has been laid out and platted as provided in this part may
file a written petition with the land use authority to have some or all of the
plat vacated, altered, or amended.
(b)  If a petition is filed under Subsection (1)(a), the land use authority
shall hold a public hearing within 45 days after the petition is filed if:
(i)  any owner within the plat notifies the county of the owner's objection in
writing within 10 days of mailed notification; or
(ii)  a public hearing is required because all of the owners in the
subdivision have not signed the revised plat.
(2)  The public hearing requirement of Subsection (1)(b) does not apply and a
land use authority may consider at a public meeting an owner's petition to
alter a subdivision plat if:
(a)  the petition seeks to join two or more of the owner's contiguous,
residential lots; and
(b)  notice has been given to adjacent property owners and pursuant to local
ordinance.
(3)  Each request to vacate or alter a plat that contains a request to vacate
or alter a public street, right-of-way, or easement is also subject to Section
17-27a-609.5.
(4)  Each petition to vacate, alter, or amend an entire plat or a portion of a
plat shall include:
(a)  the name and address of each owner of record of the land contained in the
entire plat; and
(b)  the signature of each of these owners who consents to the petition.
(5) (a)  The owners of record of adjacent parcels that are described by either
a metes and bounds description or a recorded plat may exchange title to
portions of those parcels if the exchange of title is approved by the land use
authority in accordance with Subsection (5)(b).
(b)  The land use authority shall approve an exchange of title under
Subsection (5)(a) if the exchange of title will not result in a violation of
any land use ordinance.
(c)  If an exchange of title is approved under Subsection (5)(b):
(i)  a notice of approval shall be recorded in the office of the county
recorder which:
(A)  is executed by each owner included in the exchange and by the land use
authority;
(B)  contains an acknowledgment for each party executing the notice in
accordance with the provisions of Title 57, Chapter 2a, Recognition of
Acknowledgments Act; and
(C)  recites the descriptions of both the original parcels and the parcels
created by the exchange of title; and
(ii)  a conveyance of title reflecting the approved change shall be recorded
in the office of the county recorder.
(d)  A notice of approval recorded under this Subsection (5) does not act as a
conveyance of title to real property and is not required for the recording of
a document purporting to convey title to real property.
(6) (a)  The name of a recorded subdivision may be changed by recording an
amended plat making that change, as provided in this section and subject to
Subsection (6)(c).
(b)  The surveyor preparing the amended plat shall certify that the surveyor:
(i)  holds a license in accordance with Title 58, Chapter 22, Professional
Engineers and Professional Land Surveyors Licensing Act;
(ii)  has completed a survey of the property described on the plat in
accordance with Section 17-23-17 and has verified all measurements; and
(iii)  has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
(c)  An owner of land may not submit for recording an amended plat that gives
the subdivision described in the amended plat the same name as a subdivision
in a plat already recorded in the county recorder's office.
(d)  Except as provided in Subsection (6)(a), the recording of a declaration
or other document that purports to change the name of a recorded plat is
voidable.
