17-27a-702.   Variances.
(1)  Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the
requirements of a land use ordinance as applied to a parcel of property that
he owns, leases, or in which he holds some other beneficial interest may apply
to the applicable appeal authority for a variance from the terms of the
ordinance.
(2) (a)  The appeal authority may grant a variance only if:
(i)  literal enforcement of the ordinance would cause an unreasonable hardship
for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general purpose of
the land use ordinances;
(ii)  there are special circumstances attached to the property that do not
generally apply to other properties in the same zone;
(iii)  granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial
property right possessed by other property in the same zone;
(iv)  the variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will not
be contrary to the public interest; and
(v)  the spirit of the land use ordinance is observed and substantial justice
done.
(b) (i)  In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under Subsection (2)(a), the appeal
authority may not find an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged hardship:
(A)  is located on or associated with the property for which the variance is
sought; and
(B)  comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from conditions
that are general to the neighborhood.
(ii)  In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under Subsection (2)(a), the appeal
authority may not find an unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-
imposed or economic.
(c)  In determining whether or not there are special circumstances attached to
the property under Subsection (2)(a), the appeal authority may find that
special circumstances exist only if the special circumstances:
(i)  relate to the hardship complained of; and
(ii)  deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in the
same zone.
(3)  The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the conditions
justifying a variance have been met.
(4)  Variances run with the land.
(5)  The appeal authority may not grant a use variance.
(6)  In granting a variance, the appeal authority may impose additional
requirements on the applicant that will:
(a)  mitigate any harmful affects of the variance; or
(b)  serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified.
