17-27a-801.   No district court review until administrative remedies
exhausted -- Time for filing -- Tolling of time -- Standards governing court
review -- Record on review -- Staying of decision.
(1)  No person may challenge in district court a county's land use decision
made under this chapter, or under a regulation made under authority of this
chapter, until that person has exhausted the person's administrative remedies
as provided in Part 7, Appeal Authority and Variances, if applicable.
(2) (a)  Any person adversely affected by a final decision made in the
exercise of or in violation of the provisions of this chapter may file a
petition for review of the decision with the district court within 30 days
after the local land use decision is final.
(b) (i)  The time under Subsection (2)(a) to file a petition is tolled from
the date a property owner files a request for arbitration of a constitutional
taking issue with the property rights ombudsman under Section 13-43-204 until
30 days after:
(A)  the arbitrator issues a final award; or
(B)  the property rights ombudsman issues a written statement under Subsection
13-43-204(3)(b) declining to arbitrate or to appoint an arbitrator.
(ii)  A tolling under Subsection (2)(b)(i) operates only as to the specific
constitutional taking issue that is the subject of the request for arbitration
filed with the property rights ombudsman by a property owner.
(iii)  A request for arbitration filed with the property rights ombudsman
after the time under Subsection (2)(a) to file a petition has expired does not
affect the time to file a petition.
(3) (a)  The courts shall:
(i)  presume that a decision, ordinance, or regulation made under the
authority of this chapter is valid; and
(ii)  determine only whether or not the decision, ordinance, or regulation is
arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.
(b)  A decision, ordinance, or regulation involving the exercise of
legislative discretion is valid if it is reasonably debatable that the
decision, ordinance, or regulation promotes the purposes of this chapter and
is not otherwise illegal.
(c)  A final decision of a land use authority or an appeal authority is valid
if the decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record and is not
arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.
(d)  A determination of illegality requires a determination that the decision,
ordinance, or regulation violates a law, statute, or ordinance in effect at
the time the decision was made or the ordinance or regulation adopted.
(4)  The provisions of Subsection (2)(a) apply from the date on which the
county takes final action on a land use application for any adversely affected
third party, if the county conformed with the notice provisions of Part 2,
Notice, or for any person who had actual notice of the pending decision.
(5)  If the county has complied with Section 17-27a-205, a challenge to the
enactment of a land use ordinance or general plan may not be filed with the
district court more than 30 days after the enactment.
(6)  The petition is barred unless it is filed within 30 days after land use
authority or the appeal authority's decision is final.
(7) (a)  The land use authority or appeal authority, as the case may be, shall
transmit to the reviewing court the record of its proceedings, including its
minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a true and correct transcript of
its proceedings.
(b)  If the proceeding was tape recorded, a transcript of that tape recording
is a true and correct transcript for purposes of this Subsection (7).
(8) (a) (i)  If there is a record, the district court's review is limited to
the record provided by the land use authority or appeal authority, as the case
may be.
(ii)  The court may not accept or consider any evidence outside the record of
the land use authority or appeal authority, as the case may be, unless that
evidence was offered to the land use authority or appeal authority,
respectively, and the court determines that it was improperly excluded.
(b)  If there is no record, the court may call witnesses and take evidence.
(9) (a)  The filing of a petition does not stay the decision of the land use
authority or appeal authority, as the case may be.
(b) (i)  Before filing a petition under this section or a request for
mediation or arbitration of a constitutional taking issue under Section
13-43-204, the aggrieved party may petition the appeal authority to stay its
decision.
(ii)  Upon receipt of a petition to stay, the appeal authority may order its
decision stayed pending district court review if the appeal authority finds it
to be in the best interest of the county.
(iii)  After a petition is filed under this section or a request for mediation
or arbitration of a constitutional taking issue is filed under Section
13-43-204, the petitioner may seek an injunction staying the appeal
authority's decision.
