68-3-12.   Rules of construction.
(1) (a)  In the construction of these statutes, the general rules listed in
this Subsection (1) shall be observed, unless the construction would be:
(i)  inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Legislature; or
(ii)  repugnant to the context of the statute.
(b)  The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
(c)  Words used in one gender comprehend the other gender.
(d)  Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
(e)  In accordance with Title 46, Chapter 4, Part 5, Electronic Records in
Government Agencies, words related to the medium used in the provision of
government services may include electronic or other mediums.
(2)  In the construction of these statutes, the definitions listed in this
Subsection (2) shall be observed, unless the definition would be inconsistent
with the manifest intent of the Legislature, or repugnant to the context of
the statute.
(a)  "Adjudicative proceeding" means:
(i)  all actions by a board, commission, department, officer, or other
administrative unit of the state that determine the legal rights, duties,
privileges, immunities, or other legal interests of one or more identifiable
persons, including all actions to grant, deny, revoke, suspend, modify, annul,
withdraw, or amend an authority, right, or license; and
(ii)  judicial review of all such actions.
(b)  "Advisory board," "advisory commission," and "advisory council" means a
board, commission, or council that:
(i)  provides advice and makes recommendations to another person or entity who
makes policy for the benefit of the general public;
(ii)  is created by and whose duties are provided by statute or by executive
order; and
(iii)  performs its duties only under the supervision of another person as
provided by statute.
(c)  "Councilman" includes a town trustee or a city commissioner, and "city
commissioner" includes a councilman.
(d)  "County executive" means:
(i)  the county commission in the county commission or expanded county
commission form of government established under Title 17, Chapter 52, Forms of
County Government;
(ii)  the county executive in the "county executive-council" optional form of
government authorized by Section 17-52-504; and
(iii)  the county manager in the "council-manager" optional form of government
authorized by Section 17-52-505.
(e)  "County legislative body" means:
(i)  the county commission in the county commission or expanded county
commission form of government established under Title 17, Chapter 52, Forms of
County Government;
(ii)  the county council in the "county executive-council" optional form of
government authorized by Section 17-52-504; and
(iii)  the county council in the "council-manager" optional form of government
authorized by Section 17-52-505.
(f)  "Executor" includes administrator, and the term "administrator" includes
executor, when the subject matter justifies such use.
(g)  "Guardian" includes a person who has qualified as a guardian of a minor
or incapacitated person pursuant to testamentary or court appointment and a
person who is appointed by a court to manage the estate of a minor or
incapacitated person.
(h)  "Highway" and "road" include public bridges and may be held equivalent to
the words "county way," "county road," "common road," and "state road."
(i)  "Him," "his," and other masculine pronouns include "her," "hers," and
similar feminine pronouns unless the context clearly indicates a contrary
intent or the subject matter relates clearly and necessarily to the male sex
only.
(j)  "Insane person" include idiots, lunatics, distracted persons, and persons
of unsound mind.
(k)  "Land," "real estate," and "real property" include land, tenements,
hereditaments, water rights, possessory rights, and claims.
(l)  "Man" or "men" when used alone or in conjunction with other syllables as
in "workman," includes "woman" or "women" unless the context clearly indicates
a contrary intent or the subject matter relates clearly and necessarily to the
male sex only.
(m)  "Month" means a calendar month, unless otherwise expressed, and the word
"year," or the abbreviation "A.D." is equivalent to the expression "year of
our Lord."
(n)  "Oath" includes "affirmation," and the word "swear" includes "affirm."
Every oral statement under oath or affirmation is embraced in the term
"testify," and every written one, in the term "depose."
(o)  "Person" includes individuals, bodies politic and corporate,
partnerships, associations, and companies.
(p)  "Personal property" includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidences of rights in action, and all written instruments by which
any pecuniary obligation, right, or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged, or diminished, and
every right or interest therein.
(q)  "Personal representative," "executor," and "administrator" includes an
executor, administrator, successor personal representative, special
administrator, and persons who perform substantially the same function under
the law governing their status.
(r)  "Policy board," "policy commission," or "policy council" means a board,
commission, or council that:
(i)  possesses a portion of the sovereign power of the state to enable it to
make policy for the benefit of the general public;
(ii)  is created by and whose duties are provided by the constitution or by
statute;
(iii)  performs its duties according to its own rules without supervision
other than under the general control of another person as provided by statute;
and
(iv)  is permanent and continuous and not temporary and occasional.
(s)  "Population" shall be as shown by the last preceding state or national
census, unless otherwise specially provided.
(t)  "Property" includes both real and personal property.
(u)  "Review board," "review commission," or "review council" means a board,
commission, or council that:
(i)  possesses a portion of the sovereign power of the state only to the
extent to enable it to approve policy made for the benefit of the general
public by another body or person;
(ii)  is created by and whose duties are provided by statute;
(iii)  performs its duties according to its own rules without supervision
other than under the general control of another person as provided by statute;
and
(iv)  is permanent and continuous and not temporary and occasional.
(v)  "Sheriff," "county attorney," "district attorney," "clerk," or other
words used to denote an executive or ministerial officer, may include any
deputy, or other person performing the duties of such officer, either
generally or in special cases; and the words "county clerk" may be held to
include "clerk of the district court."
(w)  "Signature" includes any name, mark, or sign written with the intent to
authenticate any instrument or writing.
(x)  "State," when applied to the different parts of the United States,
includes the District of Columbia and the territories; and the words "United
States" may include the District and the territories.
(y)  "Town" may mean incorporated town and may include city, and the word
"city" may mean incorporated town.
(z)  "Vessel," when used with reference to shipping, includes steamboats,
canal boats, and every structure adapted to be navigated from place to place.
(aa)  "Will" includes codicils.
(bb)  "Writ" means an order or precept in writing, issued in the name of the
state or of a court or judicial officer; and "process" means a writ or summons
issued in the course of judicial proceedings.
(cc)  "Writing" includes:
(i)  printing;
(ii)  handwriting; and
(iii)  information stored in an electronic or other medium if the information
is retrievable in a perceivable format.
