68-3-14.   Submitting reports to the Legislature, governor, and state auditor.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Governmental entity" means:

(i)  the state or any department, division, agency, or other instrumentality of the state; or

(ii)  a political subdivision of the state.

(b)  "Legislative committee" means a standing, interim, or other committee of the Legislature.

(c)  "Required annual report" means a written annual report that a governmental entity is required by statute to submit to the governor, whether or not the governmental entity is also required to submit the report to someone other than the governor.

(d)  "Required financial report" means a written report that a governmental entity is required by statute to submit to the state auditor.

(e)  "Specified report" means:

(i)  a written annual or other report that a governmental entity is required by statute to submit to the Legislature or a legislative committee, whether or not the governmental entity is also required to submit the report to someone other than the Legislature or a legislative committee; or

(ii)  a written report that a governmental entity submits to the Legislature or a legislative committee without a statutory requirement to do so.

(2)  A governmental entity may fulfill a statutory requirement to submit a required annual report to the governor by:

(a)  sending the governor:

(i)  an executive summary of the report, highlighting the contents of the report; and

(ii) (A)  the address of an electronic copy of the report; or

(B)  a hard copy of the report; and

(b)  providing an electronic copy of the report on the state's Internet web site.

(3)  In order to submit a specified report to the Legislature or a legislative committee, a governmental entity shall:

(a)  electronically submit the report to:

(i)  each member of the Legislature, if the governmental entity submits the report to the Legislature; or

(ii)  each member of the legislative committee, if the governmental entity submits the report to a legislative committee;

(b)  provide a printed copy of the report to each member of the Legislature who requests a printed copy, but only if one or more members request a printed copy and only to the one or more members who request a printed copy;

(c) (i)  post an electronic copy of the report on the state's Internet web site, if the governmental entity is the state or a department, division, agency, or other instrumentality of the state; or

(ii)  post an electronic copy of the report on the Internet web site of the governmental entity, if the governmental entity is a political subdivision that has an Internet web site; and

(d)  submit an electronic copy of the report to the director of the Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel, if the governmental entity submits the report to the Legislature.

(4)  In order to submit a required financial report to the state auditor, a governmental entity shall:

(a)   submit the report electronically to the state auditor, in the manner prescribed by the state auditor; and

(b)  provide a printed copy of the report to the state auditor, but only if the state auditor requests a printed copy.

(5)  Subsections (3) and (4) supersede any other statutory provision specifying the manner of a governmental entity submitting:

(a)  a specified report to the Legislature or a legislative committee; and

(b)  a required financial report to the state auditor.

(6)  Nothing in this section may be construed to require the disclosure of a report or information in a report that is not subject to disclosure under Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act, or other applicable law.



Repealed and Re-enacted by Chapter 271, 2013 General Session

