53B-8e-103.   Tuition waivers for Purple Heart recipients -- Qualifications -- Limitations.

(1)  Beginning in the 2004-05 academic year, a state institution of higher education shall waive undergraduate tuition for each Purple Heart recipient who:

(a)  is admitted as a full-time, part-time, or summer school student in an undergraduate program of study leading to a degree or certificate;

(b)  is a resident student of the state as determined under Section 53B-8-102; and

(c)  submits verification as provided in Subsection (3) that the student is a Purple Heart recipient.

(2) (a)  Beginning in the 2008-09 academic year, a state institution of higher education shall waive graduate tuition as provided in this Subsection (2) for each Purple Heart recipient who:

(i)  is admitted as a full-time, part-time, or summer school student in a graduate program of study leading to a degree;

(ii)  is a resident student of the state as determined under Section 53B-8-102; and

(iii)  submits verification as provided in Subsection (3) that the student is a Purple Heart recipient.

(b)  To qualify for a graduate tuition waiver, a Purple Heart recipient shall apply for a graduate program no later than 10 years from the day on which the Purple Heart recipient completes an undergraduate degree.

(c)  The total amount of all graduate tuition waived for a Purple Heart recipient may not exceed $10,000.

(d)  A Purple Heart recipient may receive a graduate tuition waiver for a period of time that does not exceed the lesser of:

(i)  the time it takes for the Purple Heart recipient to complete a graduate degree; or

(ii)  five years after the day on which the Purple Heart recipient is accepted to a graduate program.

(3)  A Purple Heart recipient seeking a tuition waiver shall request the Department of Veterans' Affairs to provide the verification required by Subsection (1)(c). The Department of Veterans' Affairs shall provide the verification upon obtaining evidence satisfactory to the division that the student is a Purple Heart recipient.

(4)  The State Board of Regents may request reimbursement from the Legislature for costs incurred in providing the tuition waiver under this section.

