72-2-118.    Centennial Highway Fund Restricted Account.
(1)  There is created a restricted account entitled the Centennial Highway
Fund Restricted Account within the Transportation Investment Fund of 2005
created by Section 72-2-124.
(2)  The account consists of money generated from the following revenue
sources:
(a)  any voluntary contributions received for the construction, major
reconstruction, or major renovation of state or federal highways;
(b)  appropriations made to the fund by the Legislature;
(c)  registration fees designated under Subsection 41-1a-1201(5)(a); and
(d)  the sales and use tax amounts provided for in Section 59-12-103.
(3) (a)  The account shall earn interest.
(b)  All interest earned on account money shall be deposited into the account.
(4)  The executive director may use account money, as prioritized by the
Transportation Commission, only to pay the costs of construction, major
reconstruction, or major renovation to state and federal highways.
(5)  When the highway general obligation bonds have been paid off and the
highway projects completed that are intended to be paid from revenues
deposited in the account as determined by the Executive Appropriations
Committee under Subsection (6)(d), the Division of Finance shall transfer any
existing balance in the account into the Transportation Investment Fund of
2005 created by Section 72-2-124.
(6) (a)  The Division of Finance shall monitor the highway general obligation
bonds that are being paid from revenues deposited in the account.
(b)  The department shall monitor the highway construction, major
reconstruction, or major renovation projects that are being paid from revenues
deposited in the account.
(c)  Upon request by the Executive Appropriations Committee of the
Legislature:
(i)  the Division of Finance shall report to the committee the status of all
highway general obligation bonds that are being paid from revenues deposited
in the account; and
(ii)  the department shall report to the committee the status of all highway
construction, major reconstruction, or major renovation projects that are
being paid from revenues deposited in the account.
(d)  The Executive Appropriations Committee of the Legislature shall notify
the State Tax Commission, the department, and the Division of Finance when:
(i)  all highway general obligation bonds that are intended to be paid from
revenues deposited in the account have been paid off; and
(ii)  all highway projects that are intended to be paid from revenues
deposited in the account have been completed.
(7) (a)  The Division of Finance shall, from funds that are deposited into the
Centennial Highway Fund Restricted Account, transfer into the Transportation
Investment Fund of 2005 created by Section 72-2-124 the amount of funds
certified by the Transportation Commission in accordance with Subsection
(7)(b) that are not required to pay:
(i)  principal, interest, and issuance costs of bonds issued for projects in
the Centennial Highway Program in the current fiscal year; or
(ii)  construction or reconstruction costs for projects in the Centennial
Highway Program in the current fiscal year.
(b)  The Division of Finance shall transfer the amount under Subsection (7)(a)
when the Division of Finance receives a written letter from the Transportation
Commission certifying the amount of funds available under Subsection (7)(a).
