72-2-121.1.   Highway Projects Within Counties Fund -- Accounting for
revenues -- Interest -- Expenditure of revenues.
(1)  There is created a special revenue fund known as the Highway Projects
Within Counties Fund.
(2)  The Highway Projects Within Counties Fund shall be funded by revenues
generated by a tax imposed by a county under Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 15,
County Option Sales and Use Tax for Highways, Fixed Guideways, or Systems for
Public Transit Act, if those revenues are allocated:
(a)  for a purpose described in Subsection 59-12-1503(2)(a)(iii); and
(b)  in accordance with Section 59-12-1503.
(3)  The department shall make a separate accounting for:
(a)  the revenues described in Subsection (2); and
(b)  each county for which revenues are deposited into the Highway Projects
Within Counties Fund.
(4) (a)  The Highway Projects Within Counties Fund shall earn interest.
(b)  The department shall allocate the interest earned on the State Highway
Projects Within Counties Fund:
(i)  proportionately;
(ii)  to each county's balance in the Highway Projects Within Counties Fund;
and
(iii)  on the basis of each county's balance in the Highway Projects Within
Counties Fund.
(5) (a)  The department shall expend the revenues and interest deposited into
the Highway Projects Within Counties Fund to pay:
(i)  for a state highway project within the county:
(A)  described in Subsection 59-12-1503(2)(a)(iii)(A); and
(B)  for which the requirements of Subsection 59-12-1503(5) are met;
(ii)  debt service on a project described in Subsection (5)(a); or
(iii)  bond issuance costs relating to a project described in Subsection
(5)(a).
(b) (i)  If a county legislative body submits a request to the department in
writing, the department shall transfer revenues and interest deposited into
the Highway Projects Within Counties Fund to the county legislative body to
pay:
(A)  for a local highway of regional significance project described in
Subsection 59-12-1503(2)(a)(iii)(A);
(B)  debt service on a project described in Subsection (5)(b)(i)(A); or
(C)  bond issuance costs relating to a project described in Subsection
(5)(b)(i)(A).
(ii)  The request submitted under Subsection (5)(b)(i) shall specify:
(A)  the amount of revenues requested for transfer; and
(B)  the local highway of regional significance project that the funds
requested under this Subsection (5)(b) will be expended on.
