72-2-121.2.   County of the Second Class State Highway Projects Fund -- Use
of fund monies.
(1)  As used in this section, "fund" means the County of the Second Class
State Highway Projects Fund created by this section.
(2)  There is created within the Transportation Fund a special revenue fund
known as the County of the Second Class State Highway Projects Fund.
(3)  The fund shall be funded by monies collected from:
(a)  any voluntary contributions the department receives for new construction,
major renovations, and improvements to state highways within a county of the
second class; and
(b)  sales and use taxes deposited into the fund in accordance with Section
59-12-1903.
(4)  The department shall make a separate accounting for:
(a)  the revenues described in Subsection (3); and
(b)  each county of the second class or city or town within a county of the
second class for which revenues are deposited into the fund.
(5) (a)  The fund shall earn interest.
(b)  Interest earned on fund monies shall be deposited into the fund.
(6)  Subject to Subsection (9), the executive director may use fund monies
only:
(a)  for right-of-way acquisition, new construction, major renovations, and
improvements to state highways within a county of the second class or a city
or town within a county of the second class in an amount that does not exceed
the amounts deposited for or allocated to that county of the second class or
city or town within a county of the second class in accordance with this
section;
(b)  to pay any debt service and bond issuance costs related to a purpose
described in Subsection (6)(a) in an amount that does not exceed the amounts
deposited for or allocated to that county of the second class or city or town
within a county of the second class described in Subsection (6)(a) in
accordance with this section; and
(c)  to pay the costs of the department to administer the fund in an amount
not to exceed interest earned by the fund monies.
(7)  If interest remains in the fund after the executive director pays the
costs of the department to administer the fund, the interest shall be:
(a)  allocated to each county of the second class or city or town within a
county of the second class for which revenues are deposited into the fund in
proportion to the deposits made into the fund for that county of the second
class or city or town within a county of the second class; and
(b)  expended for the purposes described in Subsection (6).
(8)  Revenues described in Subsection (3)(b) that are deposited into the fund
are considered to be a local matching contribution for the purposes described
in Section 72-2-123.
(9) (a)  The executive director shall, in using fund monies, ensure to the
extent possible that the fund monies deposited for or allocated to a city or
town are used:
(i)  for a purpose described in Subsection (6)(a) within the city or town to
which the fund monies are allocated;
(ii)  to pay debt service and bond issuance costs described in Subsection
(6)(b) if the debt service and bond issuance costs are:
(A)  secured by monies deposited for or allocated to the city or town; and
(B)  related to a project described in Subsection (6)(a) within the city or
town to which the fund monies are allocated; or
(iii)  for a purpose described in Subsection (6)(c).
(b)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the department may make rules to implement the requirements of Subsection
(9)(a).
