72-2-127.   Share the Road Bicycle Support Restricted Account.
(1)  There is created in the General Fund the Share the Road Bicycle Support
Restricted Account.
(2)  The account shall be funded by:
(a)  contributions deposited into the account in accordance with Section
41-1a-422;
(b)  appropriations to the account by the Legislature;
(c)  private contributions; and
(d)  donations or grants from public or private entities.
(3)  The Legislature shall appropriate funds in the account to the department.
(4)  The department may expend up to 5% of the monies appropriated under
Subsection (3) to administer account distributions in accordance with
Subsections (5) and (6).
(5)  The department shall distribute contributions in the account to one or
more charitable organizations that:
(a)  are exempt from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code;
(b)  have as part of their primary mission the promotion and education of:
(i)  safe bicycle operation;
(ii)  safe motor vehicle operation around bicycles; and
(iii)  healthy lifestyles; and
(c)  contribute to the start-up fee for the production and administrative
costs for providing a Share the Road Bicycle Support special group license
plate in accordance with Subsection 41-1a-418(2)(a).
(6) (a)  An organization described in Subsection (5) may apply to the
department to receive a distribution in accordance with Subsection (5).
(b)  An organization that receives a distribution from the department in
accordance with Subsection (5) shall expend the distribution only to:
(i)  pay the costs of reordering Share the Road Bicycle Support special group
license plate decals;
(ii)  produce and distribute materials to educate:
(A)  bicyclists and motorists about safe bicycling, sharing the road, and
obeying the law in Utah; and
(B)  the public on healthy lifestyles;
(iii)  participate in transportation planning that provides accommodations for
safe bicycling;
(iv)  promote a network of safe bicycling routes throughout the state; and
(v)  provide other programs that promote bicycle safety.
(c)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the department may make rules providing procedures and requirements for
an organization to apply to the department to receive a distribution under
Subsection (5).
