13-22-3.   Investigative and enforcement powers -- Education.
(1)  The division may make any investigation it considers necessary to
determine whether any person is violating, has violated, or is about to
violate any provision of this chapter or any rule made or order issued under
this chapter.  As part of the investigation, the division may:
(a)  require a person to file a statement in writing;
(b)  administer oaths, subpoena witnesses and compel their attendance, take
evidence, and examine under oath any person in connection with an
investigation; and
(c)  require the production of any books, papers, documents, merchandise, or
other material relevant to the investigation.
(2)  Whenever it appears to the director that substantial evidence exists that
any person has engaged in, is engaging in, or is about to engage in any act or
practice prohibited in this chapter or constituting a violation of this
chapter or any rule made or order issued under this chapter, the director may
do any of the following in addition to other specific duties under this
chapter:
(a)  in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act,
the director may issue an order to cease and desist from engaging in the act
or practice or from doing any act in furtherance of the activity; or
(b)  the director may bring an action in the appropriate district court of
this state to enjoin the acts or practices constituting the violation or to
enforce compliance with this chapter or any rule made or order issued under
this chapter.
(3)  Whenever it appears to the director by a preponderance of the evidence
that a person has engaged in or is engaging in any act or practice prohibited
in this chapter or constituting a violation of this chapter or any rule made
or order issued under this chapter, the director may assess an administrative
fine of up to $500 per violation up to $10,000 for any series of violations
arising out of the same operative facts.
(4)  Upon a proper showing, the court hearing an action brought under
Subsection (2)(b) may:
(a)  issue an injunction;
(b)  enter a declaratory judgment;
(c)  appoint a receiver for the defendant or the defendant's assets;
(d)  order disgorgement of any money received in violation of this chapter;
(e)  order rescission of agreements violating this chapter;
(f)  impose a fine of not more than $2,000 for each violation of this chapter;
and
(g)  impose a civil penalty, or any other relief the court considers just.
(5) (a)  In assessing the amount of a fine or penalty under Subsection (3),
(4)(f), or (4)(g), the director or court imposing the fine or penalty shall
consider the gravity of the violation and the intent of the violator.
(b)  If it does not appear by a preponderance of the evidence that the
violator acted in bad faith or with intent to harm the public, the director or
court shall excuse payment of the fine or penalty.
(6)  The division may provide or contract to provide public education and
voluntary education for applicants and registrants under this chapter.  The
education may be in the form of publications, advertisements, seminars,
courses, or other appropriate means.  The scope of the education may include:
(a)  the requirements, prohibitions, and regulated practices under this
chapter;
(b)  suggestions for effective financial and organizational practices for
charitable organizations;
(c)  charitable giving and solicitation;
(d)  potential problems with solicitations and fraudulent or deceptive
practices; and
(e)  any other matter relevant to the subject of this chapter.
