63G-7-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Claim" means any asserted demand for or cause of action for money or
damages, whether arising under the common law, under state constitutional
provisions, or under state statutes, against a governmental entity or against
an employee in the employee's personal capacity.
(2) (a)  "Employee" includes:
(i)  a governmental entity's officers, employees, servants, trustees, or
commissioners;
(ii)  members of a governing body;
(iii)  members of a government entity board;
(iv)  members of a government entity commission;
(v)  members of an advisory body, officers, and employees of a Children's
Justice Center created in accordance with Section 67-5b-104;
(vi)  student teachers holding a letter of authorization in accordance with
Sections 53A-6-103 and 53A-6-104;
(vii)  educational aides;
(viii)  students engaged in providing services to members of the public in the
course of an approved medical, nursing, or other professional health care
clinical training program;
(ix)  volunteers as defined by Subsection 67-20-2(3); and
(x)  tutors.
(b)  "Employee" includes all of the positions identified in Subsection (2)(a),
whether or not the individual holding that position receives compensation.
(c)  "Employee" does not include an independent contractor.
(3)  "Governmental entity" means the state and its political subdivisions as
both are defined in this section.
(4) (a)  "Governmental function" means each activity, undertaking, or
operation of a governmental entity.
(b)  "Governmental function" includes each activity, undertaking, or operation
performed by a department, agency, employee, agent, or officer of a
governmental entity.
(c)  "Governmental function" includes a governmental entity's failure to act.
(5)  "Injury" means death, injury to a person, damage to or loss of property,
or any other injury that a person may suffer to the person or estate, that
would be actionable if inflicted by a private person or the private person's
agent.
(6)  "Personal injury" means an injury of any kind other than property damage.
(7)  "Political subdivision" means any county, city, town, school district,
community development and renewal agency, special improvement or taxing
district, local district, special service district, an entity created by an
interlocal agreement adopted under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
Cooperation Act, or other governmental subdivision or public corporation.
(8)  "Property damage" means injury to, or loss of, any right, title, estate,
or interest in real or personal property.
(9)  "State" means the state of Utah, and includes each office, department,
division, agency, authority, commission, board, institution, hospital,
college, university, Children's Justice Center, or other instrumentality of
the state.
(10)  "Willful misconduct" means the intentional doing of a wrongful act, or
the wrongful failure to act, without just cause or excuse, where the actor is
aware that the actor's conduct will probably result in injury.
