63G-7-401.   Claim for injury -- Notice -- Contents -- Service -- Legal
disability -- Appointment of guardian ad litem.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), a claim arises when the
statute of limitations that would apply if the claim were against a private
person begins to run.
(b)  The statute of limitations does not begin to run until a claimant knew,
or with the exercise of reasonable diligence should have known:
(i)  that the claimant had a claim against the governmental entity or its
employee; and
(ii)  the identity of the governmental entity or the name of the employee.
(c)  The burden to prove the exercise of reasonable diligence is upon the
claimant.
(2)  Any person having a claim against a governmental entity, or against its
employee for an act or omission occurring during the performance of the
employee's duties, within the scope of employment, or under color of authority
shall file a written notice of claim with the entity before maintaining an
action, regardless of whether or not the function giving rise to the claim is
characterized as governmental.
(3) (a)  The notice of claim shall set forth:
(i)  a brief statement of the facts;
(ii)  the nature of the claim asserted;
(iii)  the damages incurred by the claimant so far as they are known; and
(iv)  if the claim is being pursued against a governmental employee
individually as provided in Subsection 63G-7-202(3)(c), the name of the
employee.
(b)  The notice of claim shall be:
(i)  signed by the person making the claim or that person's agent, attorney,
parent, or legal guardian; and
(ii)  directed and delivered by hand or by mail according to the requirements
of Section 68-3-8.5 to the office of:
(A)  the city or town clerk, when the claim is against an incorporated city or
town;
(B)  the county clerk, when the claim is against a county;
(C)  the superintendent or business administrator of the board, when the claim
is against a school district or board of education;
(D)  the presiding officer or secretary/clerk of the board, when the claim is
against a local district or special service district;
(E)  the attorney general, when the claim is against the state;
(F)  a member of the governing board, the executive director, or executive
secretary, when the claim is against any other public board, commission, or
body; or
(G)  the agent authorized by a governmental entity to receive the notice of
claim by the governmental entity under Subsection (5)(e).
(4) (a)  If an injury that may reasonably be expected to result in a claim
against a governmental entity is sustained by a claimant who is under the age
of majority or mentally incompetent, that governmental entity may file a
request with the court for the appointment of a guardian ad litem for the
potential claimant.
(b)  If a guardian ad litem is appointed, the time for filing a claim under
Section 63G-7-402 begins when the order appointing the guardian is issued.
(5) (a)  Each governmental entity subject to suit under this chapter shall
file a statement with the Division of Corporations and Commercial Code within
the Department of Commerce containing:
(i)  the name and address of the governmental entity;
(ii)  the office or agent designated to receive a notice of claim; and
(iii)  the address at which it is to be directed and delivered.
(b)  Each governmental entity shall update its statement as necessary to
ensure that the information is accurate.
(c)  The Division of Corporations and Commercial Code shall develop a form for
governmental entities to complete that provides the information required by
Subsection (5)(a).
(d) (i)  A newly incorporated municipality shall file the statement required
by Subsection (5)(a) promptly after the lieutenant governor issues a
certificate of incorporation under Section 67-1a-6.5.
(ii)  A newly incorporated local district shall file the statement required by
Subsection (5)(a) at the time that the written notice is filed with the
lieutenant governor under Section 17B-1-215.
(e)  A governmental entity may, in its statement, identify an agent authorized
by the entity to accept notices of claim on its behalf.
(6)  The Division of Corporations and Commercial Code shall:
(a)  maintain an index of the statements required by this section arranged
both alphabetically by entity and by county of operation; and
(b)  make the indices available to the public both electronically and via hard
copy.
(7)  A governmental entity may not challenge the validity of a notice of claim
on the grounds that it was not directed and delivered to the proper office or
agent if the error is caused by the governmental entity's failure to file or
update the statement required by Subsection (5).
