63G-7-901.   Expenses of attorney general, general counsel for state
judiciary, and general counsel for the Legislature in representing the state,
its branches, members, or employees.
(1) (a)  The Office of the Attorney General has primary responsibility to
provide legal representation to the judicial, executive, and legislative
branches of state government in cases where coverage under the Risk Management
Fund created by Section 63A-4-201 applies.
(b)  When the attorney general has primary responsibility to provide legal
representation to the judicial or legislative branches, the attorney general
shall consult with the general counsel for the state judiciary and with the
general counsel for the Legislature, to solicit their assistance in defending
their respective branch, and in determining strategy and making decisions
concerning the disposition of those claims.
(c)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(b), the decision for settlement of
monetary claims in those cases lies with the attorney general and the state
risk manager.
(2) (a)  If the Judicial Council, after consultation with the general counsel
for the state judiciary, determines that the Office of the Attorney General
cannot adequately defend the state judiciary, its members, or employees
because of a conflict of interest, separation of powers concerns, or other
political or legal differences, the Judicial Council may direct its general
counsel to separately represent and defend it.
(b)  If the general counsel for the state judiciary undertakes independent
legal representation of the state judiciary, its members, or employees, the
general counsel shall notify the state risk manager and the attorney general
in writing before undertaking that representation.
(c)  If the state judiciary elects to be represented by its own counsel under
this section, the decision for settlement of claims against the state
judiciary, its members, or employees, where Risk Management Fund coverage
applies, lies with the general counsel for the state judiciary and the state
risk manager.
(3) (a)  If the Legislative Management Committee, after consultation with the
general counsel for the Legislature, determines that the Office of the
Attorney General cannot adequately defend the legislative branch, its members,
or employees because of a conflict of interest, separation of powers concerns,
or other political or legal differences, the Legislative Management Committee
may direct its general counsel to separately represent and defend it.
(b)  If the general counsel for the Legislature undertakes independent legal
representation of the Legislature, its members, or employees, the general
counsel shall notify the state risk manager and the attorney general in
writing before undertaking that representation.
(c)  If the legislative branch elects to be represented by its own counsel
under this section, the decision for settlement of claims against the
legislative branch, its members, or employees, where Risk Management Fund
coverage applies, lies with the general counsel for the Legislature and the
state risk manager.
(4) (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 67-5-3 or any other
provision of the Utah Code, the attorney general, the general counsel for the
state judiciary, and the general counsel for the Legislature may bill the
Department of Administrative Services for all costs and legal fees expended by
their respective offices, including attorneys' and secretarial salaries, in
representing the state or any indemnified employee against any claim for which
the Risk Management Fund may be liable and in advising state agencies and
employees regarding any of those claims.
(b)  The risk manager shall draw funds from the Risk Management Fund for this
purpose.
