63G-7-902.   Defending government employee -- Request -- Cooperation --
Payment of judgment.
(1)  Except as provided in Subsections (2) and (3), a governmental entity
shall defend any action brought against its employee arising from an act or
omission occurring:
(a)  during the performance of the employee's duties;
(b)  within the scope of the employee's employment; or
(c)  under color of authority.
(2) (a)  Before a governmental entity may defend its employee against a claim,
the employee shall make a written request to the governmental entity to defend
the employee:
(i)  within ten days after service of process upon the employee; or
(ii)  within a longer period that would not prejudice the governmental entity
in maintaining a defense on the employee's behalf; or
(iii)  within a period that would not conflict with notice requirements
imposed on the entity in connection with insurance carried by the entity
relating to the risk involved.
(b)  If the employee fails to make a request, or fails to reasonably cooperate
in the defense, including the making of an offer of judgment under Rule 68,
Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, Offers of Judgment, the governmental entity
need not defend or continue to defend the employee, nor pay any judgment,
compromise, or settlement against the employee in respect to the claim.
(3)  The governmental entity may decline to defend, or, subject to any court
rule or order, decline to continue to defend, an action against an employee if
it determines:
(a)  that the act or omission in question did not occur:
(i)  during the performance of the employee's duties;
(ii)  within the scope of the employee's employment; or
(iii)  under color of authority; or
(b)  that the injury or damage on which the claim was based resulted from
conditions set forth in Subsection 63G-7-202(3)(c).
(4) (a)  Within ten days of receiving a written request to defend an employee,
the governmental entity shall inform the employee whether or not it shall
provide a defense, and, if it refuses to provide a defense, the basis for its
refusal.
(b)  A refusal by the entity to provide a defense is not admissible for any
purpose in the action in which the employee is a defendant.
(5)  Except as provided in Subsection (6), if a governmental entity conducts
the defense of an employee, the governmental entity shall pay any judgment
based upon the claim.
(6)  A governmental entity may conduct the defense of an employee under a
reservation of rights under which the governmental entity reserves the right
not to pay a judgment if any of the conditions set forth in Subsection (3) are
established.
(7) (a)  Nothing in this section or Section 63G-7-903 affects the obligation
of a governmental entity to provide insurance coverage according to the
requirements of Subsection 41-12a-301(3) and Section 63G-7-802.
(b)  When a governmental entity declines to defend, or declines to continue to
defend, an action against its employee under any of the conditions set forth
in Subsection (3), it shall still provide coverage up to the amount specified
in Section 31A-22-304.
