63B-8-102.   Maximum amount -- Projects authorized.
(1)  The total amount of bonds issued under this part may not exceed
$48,500,000.
(2) (a)  Proceeds from the issuance of bonds shall be provided to the division
to provide funds to pay all or part of the cost of acquiring and constructing
the projects listed in this Subsection (2).
(b)  These costs may include the cost of acquiring land, interests in land,
easements and rights-of-way, improving sites, and acquiring, constructing,
equipping, and furnishing facilities and all structures, roads, parking
facilities, utilities, and improvements necessary, incidental, or convenient
to the facilities, interest estimated to accrue on these bonds during the
period to be covered by construction of the projects plus a period of six
months after the end of the construction period, and all related engineering,
architectural, and legal fees.
(c)  For the division, proceeds shall be provided for the following:
PROJECT                                 AMOUNT           ESTIMATED
DESCRIPTION                             FUNDED          OPERATIONS AND
MAINTENANCE
Southern Utah University -                      $2,493,200
$447,744
Physical Education Building
Utah Valley State College -                     $29,000,000
$721,875
Information Sciences Building
University of Utah -                            $7,268,500
$140,217
Cowles Building Renovation
Vernal District Court                           $4,539,500
$149,989
Salt Lake Community College -           $4,200,000
$281,784
Applied Education Center
TOTAL CAPITAL AND                       $47,501,200
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
(d)  For purposes of this section, operations and maintenance costs:
(i)  are estimates only;
(ii)  may include any operations and maintenance costs already funded in
existing agency budgets; and
(iii)  are not commitments by this Legislature or future Legislatures to fund
those operations and maintenance costs.
(3) (a)  The amounts funded as listed in Subsection (2) are estimates only and
do not constitute a limitation on the amount that may be expended for any
project.
(b)  The board may revise these estimates and redistribute the amount
estimated for a project among the projects authorized.
(c)  The commission, by resolution and in consultation with the board, may
delete one or more projects from this list if the inclusion of that project or
those projects in the list could be construed to violate state law or federal
law or regulation.
(4) (a)  The division may enter into agreements related to these projects
before the receipt of proceeds of bonds issued under this chapter.
(b)  The division shall make those expenditures from unexpended and
unencumbered building funds already appropriated to the Capital Projects Fund.
(c)  The division shall reimburse the Capital Projects Fund upon receipt of
the proceeds of bonds issued under this chapter.
(d)  The commission may, by resolution, make any statement of intent relating
to that reimbursement that is necessary or desirable to comply with federal
tax law.
(5) (a)  For those projects for which only partial funding is provided in
Subsection (2), it is the intent of the Legislature that the balance necessary
to complete the projects be addressed by future Legislatures, either through
appropriations or through the issuance or sale of bonds.
(b)  For those phased projects, the division may enter into contracts for
amounts not to exceed the anticipated full project funding but may not allow
work to be performed on those contracts in excess of the funding already
authorized by the Legislature.
(c)  Those contracts shall contain a provision for termination of the contract
for the convenience of the state as required by Section 63G-6-601.
(d)  It is also the intent of the Legislature that this authorization to the
division does not bind future Legislatures to fund projects initiated from
this authorization.
