17C-4-201.   Consent of a taxing entity or public entity to an agency
receiving tax increment or sales tax funds for community development project.
(1)  An agency may negotiate with a taxing entity and public entity for the
taxing entity's or public entity's consent to the agency receiving the
entity's or public entity's tax increment or sales tax revenues, or both, for
the purpose of providing funds to carry out a proposed or adopted community
development project area plan.
(2)  The consent of a taxing entity or public entity under Subsection (1) may
be expressed in:
(a)  a resolution adopted by the taxing entity or public entity; or
(b)  an interlocal agreement, under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
Cooperation Act, between the taxing entity or public entity and the agency.
(3)  A resolution adopted or interlocal agreement entered under Subsection (2)
on or after March 30, 2009 shall specify:
(a)  if the resolution or interlocal agreement provides for the agency to be
paid tax increment:
(i)  the method of calculating the amount of the taxing entity's tax increment
from the project area that will be paid to the agency, including the agreed
base year and agreed base taxable value;
(ii)  the number of tax years that the agency will be paid the taxing entity's
tax increment from the project area; and
(iii)  the percentage of the taxing entity's tax increment or maximum
cumulative dollar amount of the taxing entity's tax increment that the agency
will be paid; and
(b)  if the resolution or interlocal agreement provides for the agency to be
paid a public entity's sales tax revenue:
(i)  the method of calculating the amount of the public entity's sales tax
revenue that the agency will be paid;
(ii)  the number of tax years that the agency will be paid the sales tax
revenue; and
(iii)  the percentage of sales tax revenue or the maximum cumulative dollar
amount of sales tax revenue that the agency will be paid.
(4) (a)  Unless the taxing entity otherwise agrees, an agency may not be paid
a taxing entity's tax increment:
(i)  that exceeds the percentage or maximum cumulative dollar amount of tax
increment specified in the resolution or interlocal agreement under Subsection
(2); or
(ii)  for more tax years than specified in the resolution or interlocal
agreement under Subsection (2).
(b)  Unless the public entity otherwise agrees, an agency may not be paid a
public entity's sales tax revenue:
(i)  that exceeds the percentage or maximum cumulative dollar amount of sales
tax revenue specified in the resolution or interlocal agreement under
Subsection (2); or
(ii)  for more tax years than specified in the resolution or interlocal
agreement under Subsection (2).
(5)  A school district may consent to an agency receiving tax increment from
the school district's basic levy only to the extent that the school district
also consents to the agency receiving tax increment from the school district's
local levy.
(6) (a)  A resolution or interlocal agreement under this section may be
amended from time to time.
(b)  Each amendment of a resolution or interlocal agreement shall be subject
to and receive the benefits of the provisions of this part to the same extent
as if the amendment were an original resolution or interlocal agreement.
(7)  A taxing entity's or public entity's consent to an agency receiving funds
under this section is not subject to the requirements of Section 10-8-2.
