78A-3-101.   Number of justices -- Terms -- Chief justice and associate chief justice -- Selection and functions.

(1)  The Supreme Court consists of five justices.

(2)  A justice of the Supreme Court shall be appointed initially to serve until the first general election held more than three years after the effective date of the appointment.  Thereafter, the term of office of a justice of the Supreme Court is 10 years and commences on the first Monday in January following the date of election.  A justice whose term expires may serve upon request of the Judicial Council until a successor is appointed and qualified.

(3)  The justices of the Supreme Court shall elect a chief justice from among the members of the court by a majority vote of all justices.  The term of the office of chief justice is four years.  The chief justice may serve successive terms.  The chief justice may resign from the office of chief justice without resigning from the Supreme Court.  The chief justice may be removed from the office of chief justice by a majority vote of all justices of the Supreme Court.

(4)  If the justices are unable to elect a chief justice within 30 days of a vacancy in that office, the associate chief justice shall act as chief justice until a chief justice is elected under this section.  If the associate chief justice is unable or unwilling to act as chief justice, the most senior justice shall act as chief justice until a chief justice is elected under this section.

(5)  In addition to the chief justice's duties as a member of the Supreme Court, the chief justice has duties as provided by law.

(6)  There is created the office of associate chief justice.  The term of office of the associate chief justice is two years.  The associate chief justice may serve in that office no more than two successive terms.  The associate chief justice shall be elected by a majority vote of the members of the Supreme Court and shall be allocated duties as the chief justice determines.  If the chief justice is absent or otherwise unable to serve, the associate chief justice shall serve as chief justice.  The chief justice may delegate responsibilities to the associate chief justice as consistent with law.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 3, 2008 General Session

