40-10-13.   Advertisement of ownership, location, and boundaries -- Notice
to interested agencies or bodies -- Objections -- Conference.
(1) (a)  At the time of submission of an application for a surface coal mining
and reclamation permit, or revision of an existing permit pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, the applicant shall submit to the division a copy
of the applicant’s advertisement of the ownership, precise location, and
boundaries of the land to be affected.
(b)  At the time of submission the advertisement shall be placed by the
applicant:
(i)  in a local newspaper of general circulation in the locality of the
proposed surface mine at least once a week for four consecutive weeks; and
(ii)  as required in Section 45-1-101.
(c)  The division shall notify various local governmental bodies, planning
agencies, and sewage and water treatment authorities of water companies in the
locality in which the proposed surface mining will take place, notifying them
of the operator's intention to surface mine a particularly described tract of
land and indicating the application's permit number and where a copy of the
proposed mining and reclamation plan may be inspected.
(d)  These local bodies, agencies, authorities, or companies may submit
written comments within a reasonable period established by the division on the
mining applications with respect to the effects of the proposed operation on
the environment which are within their area of responsibility.
(e)  These comments shall immediately be transmitted to the applicant by the
division and shall be made available to the public at the same locations as
are the mining applications.
(2) (a)  Any person having an interest which is or may be adversely affected
or the officer or head of any federal, state, or local governmental agency or
authority shall have the right to file written objections to the proposed
initial or revised application for a permit for surface coal mining and
reclamation operations with the division within 30 days after the last
publication of the notice.  These objections shall immediately be transmitted
to the applicant by the division and shall be made available to the public.
(b)  If written objections are filed and a conference requested, the division
shall then hold a conference within a reasonable time of the receipt of the
objections or request.  The conference shall be informal and shall be
conducted in accordance with the procedures described in this Subsection
(2)(b), irrespective of the requirements of Section 63G-4-203, Administrative
Procedures Act.  The conference shall be held in the locality of the coal
mining and reclamation operation if requested within a reasonable time after
written objections or the request for an informal conference are received by
the division.  The date, time, and location of the conference shall be
advertised by the division in a newspaper of general circulation in the
locality at least two weeks prior to the scheduled conference date.  The
division may arrange with the applicant upon request by any party to the
administrative proceeding access to the proposed mining area for the purpose
of gathering information relevant to the proceeding.  An electronic or
stenographic record shall be made of the conference proceeding unless waived
by all parties.  This record shall be maintained and shall be accessible to
the parties until final release of the applicant's performance bond.  In the
event all parties requesting the conference stipulate agreement prior to the
requested conference and withdraw their request, the conference need not be
held.
