40-10-20.   Civil penalty for violation of chapter -- Informal conference --
Public hearing -- Contest of violation or amount of penalty -- Collection --
Criminal penalties -- Civil penalty for failure to correct violation.
(1) (a)  Any permittee who violates any permit condition or other provision of
this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty by the division.  If the
violation leads to the issuance of a cessation order under Section 40-10-22,
the civil penalty shall be assessed.
(b) (i)  The penalty may not exceed $5,000 for each violation.
(ii)  Each day of a continuing violation may be deemed a separate violation
for purposes of the penalty assessments.
(c)  In determining the amount of the penalty, consideration shall be given
to:
(i)  the permittee's history of previous violations at the particular surface
coal mining operation;
(ii)  the seriousness of the violation, including any irreparable harm to the
environment and any hazard to the health or safety of the public;
(iii)  whether the permittee was negligent; and
(iv)  the demonstrated good faith of the permittee in attempting to achieve
rapid compliance after notification of the violation.
(2) (a)  Within 30 days after the issuance of a notice or order charging that
a violation of this chapter has occurred, the division shall inform the
permittee of the proposed assessment.
(b)  The person charged with the penalty shall then have 30 days to pay the
proposed assessment in full, or request an informal conference before the
division.
(c)  The informal conference held by the division may address either the
amount of the proposed assessment or the fact of the violation, or both.
(d)  If the permittee who requested the informal conference and participated
in the proceedings is not in agreement with the results of the informal
conference, the permittee may, within 30 days of receipt of the decision made
by the division in the informal conference, request a hearing before the
board.
(e) (i)  Prior to any review of the proposed assessment or the fact of a
violation by the board, and within 30 days of receipt of the decision made by
the division in the informal conference, the permittee shall forward to the
division the amount of the proposed assessment for placement in an escrow
account.
(ii)  If the operator fails to forward the amount of the penalty to the
division within 30 days of receipt of the results of the informal conference,
the operator waives any opportunity for further review of the fact of the
violation or to contest the amount of the civil penalty assessed for the
violation.
(iii)  If, through administrative or judicial review, it is determined that no
violation occurred or that the amount of the penalty should be reduced, the
division shall within 30 days remit the appropriate amount to the operator
with interest accumulated.
(3) (a)  A civil penalty assessed by the division shall be final only after
the person charged with a violation described under Subsection (1) has been
given an opportunity for a public hearing.
(b)  If a public hearing is held, the board shall make findings of fact and
shall issue a written decision as to the occurrence of the violation and the
amount of the penalty which is warranted, incorporating, when appropriate, an
order requiring that the penalty be paid.
(c)  When appropriate, the board shall consolidate the hearings with other
proceedings under Section 40-10-22.
(d)  Any hearing under this section shall be of record and shall be conducted
pursuant to board rules governing the proceedings.
(e)  If the person charged with a violation fails to avail himself of the
opportunity for a public hearing, a civil penalty shall be assessed by the
division after the division:
(i)  has determined:
(A)  that a violation did occur; and
(B)  the amount of the penalty which is warranted; and
(ii)  has issued an order requiring that the penalty be paid.
(4)  Civil penalties owed under this chapter may be recovered in a civil
action brought by the attorney general of Utah at the request of the board in
any appropriate district court of the state.
(5)  Any person who willfully and knowingly violates a condition of a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter or fails or refuses to comply with any order
issued under Section 40-10-22 or any order incorporated in a final decision
issued by the board under this chapter, except an order incorporated in a
decision under Subsection (3), shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine
of not more than $10,000, or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or
both.
(6)  Whenever a corporate permittee violates a condition of a permit issued
pursuant to this chapter or fails or refuses to comply with any order
incorporated in a final decision issued by the board under this chapter,
except an order incorporated in a decision issued under Subsection (3), any
director, officer, or agent of the corporation who willfully and knowingly
authorized, ordered, or carried out the violation, failure, or refusal shall
be subject to the same civil penalties, fines, and imprisonment that may be
imposed upon a person under Subsections (1) and (5).
(7)  Whoever knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or
certification, or knowingly fails to make any statement, representation, or
certification in any application, record, report, plan, or other document
filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or any order or
decision issued by the board under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
punished by a fine of not more than $10,000, or by imprisonment for not more
than one year, or both.
(8) (a)  Any operator who fails to correct a violation for which a notice or
cessation order has been issued under Subsection 40-10-22(1) within the period
permitted for its correction shall be assessed a civil penalty of not less
than $750 for each day during which the failure or violation continues.
(b)  The period permitted for correction of a violation for which a notice of
cessation order has been issued under Subsection 40-10-22(1) may not end
until:
(i)  the entry of a final order by the board, in the case of any review
proceedings initiated by the operator in which the board orders, after an
expedited hearing, the suspension of the abatement requirements of the
citation after determining that the operator will suffer irreparable loss or
damage from the application of those requirements; or
(ii)  the entry of an order of the court, in the case of any review
proceedings initiated by the operator wherein the court orders the suspension
of the abatement requirements of the citation.
