40-10-28.1.   Certification of completion of coal reclamation.
(1)  The governor may certify to the secretary of the United States Department
of Interior that all of the priorities stated in Subsection 40-10-25(2) for
the eligible lands and waters specified in Subsection 40-10-25(3) have been
achieved.
(2) (a)  If the secretary concurs with the certification made by the governor,
Subsection 40-10-25(3) does not apply for the purpose of determining the
eligibility of lands and waters for annual grants, and, except as provided in
Subsection (2)(b), eligible lands, waters, and facilities are those:
(i)  which were mined or processed for minerals or which were affected by
mineral mining or processing;
(ii)  abandoned or left in an inadequate reclamation status prior to August 3,
1977; and
(iii)  for which there is no continuing reclamation responsibility under state
or other federal laws.
(b)  In determining the eligibility of federal lands, water, and facilities
under the jurisdiction of the Forest Service or Bureau of Land Management, in
lieu of the August 3, 1977, date referred to in Subsection (2)(a), the
applicable dates shall be August 28, 1974, and November 26, 1980,
respectively.
(3)  Expenditures of monies for lands, waters, and facilities referred to in
Subsection (2) shall reflect the following objectives and priorities in the
order stated, instead of the priorities set forth in Subsection 40-10-25(2):
(a)  the protection of public health, safety, general welfare, and property
from extreme danger of adverse effects of mineral mining and processing
practices;
(b)  the protection of public health, safety, and general welfare from adverse
effects of mineral mining and processing practices; and
(c)  the restoration of land and water resources and the environment
previously degraded by the adverse effects of mineral mining and processing
practices.
(4)  Sites and areas designated for remedial action pursuant to the Uranium
Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978, 42 U.S.C. 7901 et seq., or which
have been listed for remedial action pursuant to the Comprehensive
Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq., are not eligible for expenditures from the fund under this section.
(5)  The following projects may be undertaken if they relate to the priorities
stated in Subsection (3):
(a)  reclamation projects involving the protection, repair, replacement,
construction, or enhancement of utilities, such as those relating to water
supply or roads, or other facilities serving the public that are adversely
affected by mineral mining and processing practices; or
(b)  the construction of public facilities in communities impacted by coal or
other mineral mining and processing practices.
(6)  Notwithstanding Subsection (5), if the secretary concurs in the
certification referenced in Subsection (1) and if the governor determines
there is a need for activities or construction of specific public facilities
related to the coal or minerals industry in an area impacted by coal or
minerals development and the secretary concurs in this need, then the division
may use annual grants made available under Subsection 40-10-25(1) to carry out
these activities or construction.
(7)  Sections 40-10-27 and 40-10-28, which govern the reclamation of abandoned
coal mines, shall also apply to the reclamation of abandoned mineral
operations.
