79-5-202.   Council membership -- Expenses.
(1)  The council shall consist of nine members knowledgeable about muscle-
powered recreational activities as follows:
(a)  five members shall represent the public at large;
(b)  one member, nominated by the Utah League of Cities and Towns, shall
represent city government;
(c)  one member, nominated by the Utah Association of Counties, shall
represent county government;
(d)  one member shall represent the United States Forest Service; and
(e)  one member shall represent the Bureau of Land Management.
(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), as terms of current council
members expire, the division shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the division
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that
approximately half of the council is appointed every two years.
(3)  The council shall elect annually a chair and a vice chair from its
members.
(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the division
shall appoint the replacement for the unexpired term.
(5) (a) (i)  A member who is not a government employee may not receive
compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem
and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's official duties at
the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  A member may decline to receive per diem and expenses for the member's
service.
(b) (i)  A state government officer and employee member who does not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from the agency the member represents for the
member's service may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance
of the member's official duties at the rates established by the Division of
Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A state government officer and employee member may decline to receive
per diem and expenses for the member's service.
(c) (i)  A local government member who does not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that the member represents for the member's service
may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the member's
official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A local government member may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for the member's service.
