20A-3-104.   Manner of voting.
(1) (a)  Any registered voter desiring to vote shall give the voter's name,
and, if requested, the voter's residence, to one of the poll workers.
(b)  The voter shall present valid voter identification to one of the poll
workers.
(c)  If the poll worker is not satisfied that the voter has presented valid
voter identification, the poll worker shall:
(i)  indicate on the official register that the voter was not properly
identified;
(ii)  issue the voter a provisional ballot;
(iii)  notify the voter that the voter will have until the close of normal
office hours on Monday after the day of the election to present valid voter
identification:
(A)  to the county clerk at the county clerk's office; or
(B)  to an election officer who is administering the election; and
(iv)  follow the procedures and requirements of Section 20A-3-105.5.
(d)  If the person's right to vote is challenged as provided in Section
20A-3-202, the poll worker shall follow the procedures and requirements of
Section 20A-3-105.5.
(2) (a) The poll worker in charge of the official register shall check the
official register to determine whether or not a person is registered to vote.
(b)  If the voter's name is not found on the official register, the poll
worker shall follow the procedures and requirements of Section 20A-3-105.5.
(3)  If the poll worker determines that the voter is registered and:
(a)  if the ballot is a paper ballot or a ballot sheet:
(i)  the poll worker in charge of the official register shall:
(A)  write the ballot number opposite the name of the voter in the official
register; and
(B)  direct the voter to sign the voter's name in the election column in the
official register;
(ii)  another poll worker shall list the ballot number and voter's name in the
pollbook; and
(iii)  the poll worker having charge of the ballots shall:
(A)  endorse the poll worker's initials on the stub;
(B)  check the name of the voter on the pollbook list with the number of the
stub;
(C)  hand the voter a ballot; and
(D)  allow the voter to enter the voting booth; or
(b)  if the ballot is an electronic ballot:
(i)  the poll worker in charge of the official register shall direct the voter
to sign the voter's name in the official register;
(ii)  another poll worker shall list the voter's name in the pollbook; and
(iii)  the poll worker having charge of the ballots shall:
(A)  provide the voter access to the electronic ballot; and
(B)  allow the voter to vote the electronic ballot.
(4)  Whenever the election officer is required to furnish more than one kind
of official ballot to the voting precinct, the poll workers of that voting
precinct shall give the registered voter the kind of ballot that the voter is
qualified to vote.
