20A-3-106.   Voting straight ticket -- Splitting ballot -- Writing in names
-- Effect of unnecessary marking of cross.
(1)  When voting a paper ballot, any voter desiring to vote for all the
candidates from any one registered political party may:
(a)  mark in the circle or position above that political party;
(b)  mark in the squares or position opposite the names of all candidates for
that party ticket; or
(c)  make both markings.
(2) (a)  When voting a ballot sheet, any voter desiring to vote for all the
candidates from any one registered political party may:
(i)  mark the selected party on the straight party page or section; or
(ii)  mark the name of each candidate from that party.
(b)  To vote for candidates from two or more political parties, the voter may:
(i)  mark in the squares or positions opposite the names of the candidates for
whom the voter wishes to vote without marking in any circle; or
(ii)  indicate his choice by marking in the circle or position above one
political party and marking in the squares or positions opposite the names of
desired candidates.
(3) (a)  When voting an electronic ballot, any voter desiring to vote for all
the candidates from any one registered political party may:
(i)  select that party on the straight party selection area; or
(ii)  select the name of each candidate from that party.
(b)  To vote for candidates from two or more political parties, the voter may:
(i)  select the names of the candidates for whom the voter wishes to vote
without selecting a political party in the straight party selection area; or
(ii)  select a political party in the straight party selection area and select
the names of the candidates for whom the voter wishes to vote.
(4)  In any election other than a primary election, if a voter voting a ballot
has selected or placed a mark next to a party name in order to vote a straight
party ticket and wishes to vote for a person on another party ticket for an
office, the voter shall select or mark the ballot next to the name of the
candidate for whom the voter wishes to vote.
(5) (a)  The voter may cast a write-in vote on a paper ballot or ballot sheet:
(i)  by entering the name of a valid write-in candidate:
(A)  by writing the name of a valid write-in candidate in the blank write-in
section of the ballot; or
(B)  by affixing a sticker with the office and name of the valid write-in name
printed on it in the blank write-in part of the ballot; and
(ii)  by placing a mark opposite the name of the write-in candidate to
indicate the voter's vote.
(b)  On a paper ballot or ballot sheet, a voter is considered to have voted
for the person whose name is written or whose sticker appears in the blank
write-in part of the ballot, if a mark is made opposite that name.
(c)  On a paper ballot or ballot sheet, the unnecessary marking of a mark in a
square on the ticket below the marked circle does not affect the validity of
the vote.
(6)  The voter may cast a write-in vote on an electronic ballot by:
(a)  marking the appropriate position opposite the area for entering a write-
in candidate for the office sought by the candidate for whom the voter wishes
to vote; and
(b)  entering the name of a valid write-in candidate in the write-in selection
area.
