20A-3-201.   Watchers.

(1) (a) (i)  For each regular general election or statewide special election, and for each regular primary and Western States Presidential Primary, each registered political party and any person interested in a ballot proposition appearing on the ballot may appoint one person to act as a voting poll watcher to observe the casting of ballots, another person to act as a counting poll watcher to observe the counting of ballots, and another person to act as an inspecting poll watcher to inspect the condition and observe the securing of ballot packages.

(ii)  Each party poll watcher shall be designated, and his selection made known to the poll workers, by an affidavit made by the county chair of each of the parties.

(iii)  Each issue poll watcher shall be designated, and his selection made known to the poll workers, by an affidavit made by the individual appointing him.

(b) (i)  For each municipal general election, municipal primary, local special election, or bond election that uses paper ballots, each candidate and any person interested in an issue appearing on the ballot may appoint one person to act as a voting poll watcher to observe the casting of ballots, another person to act as a counting poll watcher to observe the counting of ballots, and another person to act as an inspecting poll watcher to inspect the condition and observe the securing of ballot packages.

(ii)  For each municipal general election, municipal primary, local special election, or bond election that uses ballot sheets, each candidate and any person interested in an issue appearing on the ballot may appoint one person to act as a voting poll watcher to observe the casting of ballots, another person to act as a counting poll watcher to observe the counting of ballots, and another person to act as an inspecting poll watcher to inspect the condition and observe the securing of ballot packages.

(iii)  Each candidate poll watcher shall be designated, and his selection made known to the poll workers, by an affidavit made by the candidate appointing him.

(iv)  Each issue poll watcher shall be designated, and his selection made known to the poll workers, by an affidavit made by the individual appointing him.

(2)  If an appointed poll watcher is temporarily absent for meals, or is sick or otherwise absent, that poll watcher may substitute some other watcher of similar political beliefs by informing the poll workers of the substitution by affidavit.

(3)  Voting poll watchers may watch and observe the voting process, and may make a written memorandum, but they may not interfere in any way with the process of voting except to challenge a voter as provided in this part.

(4)  The counting poll watcher shall remain in the counting room, except in the case of necessity, until the close of the polls and may not divulge the progress of the count until the count is completed.

(5) (a)  It is unlawful for a counting poll watcher to communicate in any manner, directly or indirectly, by word or sign, the progress of the count, the result so far, or any other information about the count.

(b)  Any person who violates this subsection is guilty of a third degree felony.

(6)  The inspecting poll watcher may be present in the office of the clerk or recorder to whom ballots are delivered after elections to:

(a)  inspect the condition of the packages containing the ballots upon their arrival; and

(b)  observe the placement of these packages in a safe and secure place.

(7) (a)  Prior to each election in which a ballot sheet or electronic ballot is used, any interested person may act as a testing watcher to observe a demonstration of logic and accuracy testing of the voting devices prior to the commencement of voting.

(b)  The election officer shall give prior notice of the logic and accuracy testing demonstration at least two days prior to the date of the demonstration by publishing notice of the date, time, and location of the demonstration:

(i)  in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction holding the election; and

(ii)  as required in Section 45-1-101.

(c)  An election official shall provide, upon request, a copy of testing results to a testing watcher.



Amended by Chapter 388, 2009 General Session

