20A-3-202.   Challenges -- Recorded in official register and in pollbook.
(1) (a)  When any person applies for a ballot or when a person offers a ballot
for deposit in the ballot box, the person's right to vote in that voting
precinct and in that election may be orally challenged by a poll worker or any
challenger orally stating the challenged voter's name and the basis for the
challenge.
(b)  A person may challenge another person's right to vote by alleging that:
(i)  the voter is not the person whose name appears in the official register
and under which name the right to vote is claimed;
(ii)  the voter is not a resident of Utah;
(iii)  the voter is not a citizen of the United States;
(iv)  the voter has not or will not have resided in Utah for 30 days
immediately before the date of the election;
(v)  the voter does not live in the voting precinct;
(vi)  the voter does not live within the geographic boundaries of the entity
holding the election;
(vii)  the voter's principal place of residence is not in the voting precinct;
(viii)  the voter's principal place of residence is not in the geographic
boundaries of the election area;
(ix)  the voter has voted before in the election;
(x)  the voter is not at least 18 years old;
(xi)  the voter is involuntarily confined or incarcerated in jail or prison
and was not a resident of the entity holding the election before the voter was
confined or incarcerated;
(xii)  the voter is a convicted felon and is incarcerated for the commission
of a felony; or
(xiii)  in a regular primary election, the voter does not meet the political
party affiliation criteria established by the political party whose ballot the
voter seeks to vote.
(2) (a)  Any person may challenge the right to vote of any person whose name
appears on the official register by filing a written signed statement
identifying the challenged voter's name and the basis for the challenge with
the county clerk during regular business hours and not later than the date
that falls two business days before the date voting commences.
(b)  The person challenging a person's right to vote shall allege one or more
of the grounds established in Subsection (1)(b) as the basis for the
challenge.
(c)  The county clerk shall:
(i)  carefully preserve the written challenges;
(ii)  write in the appropriate official register opposite the name of any
person for whom the county clerk received a written challenge, the words "To
be challenged"; and
(iii)  transmit the written challenges to poll workers of that voting
precinct.
(d) The poll workers shall raise the written challenge with the voter when the
voter requests a ballot.
(3)  The poll workers shall record all challenges in the official register and
on the challenge sheets in the pollbook.
(4)  If a person's right to vote is challenged under this section, the poll
worker shall follow the procedures and requirements of Section 20A-3-105.5.
