20A-3-302.5.   Absentee voting -- No polling place in elections for certain
districts.
(1)  As used in this section, "district" means a:
(a)  local district, as defined in Section 17B-1-102; or
(b)  special service district, as defined in Section 17D-1-102.
(2)  Notwithstanding Sections 17B-1-306 and 17D-1-303, at least 60 days before
the day of an election, a district may elect to administer an election
entirely by absentee ballot.
(3)  If a district decides to administer an election entirely by absentee
ballot, the district shall mail to each registered voter within the district:
(a)  an absentee ballot;
(b)  a statement that there will be no polling place for the election;
(c)  instructions for returning the ballot that include an express notice
about any relevant deadlines that the voter must meet in order for the voter's
vote to be counted; and
(d)  a warning, on a separate page of colored paper in bold face print,
indicating that if the voter fails to follow the instructions included with
the absentee ballot, the voter will be unable to vote in that election because
there will be no polling place on the day of the election.
(4)  Any voter who votes by absentee ballot under this section is not required
to apply for an absentee ballot as required by this part.
(5) (a)  A district that administers an election entirely by absentee ballot
shall:
(i) (A)  obtain, in person, the signatures of each voter within the district
before the election; and
(B)  maintain the signatures on file in the district's office; or
(ii)  obtain the signatures of each voter within the district from the county
clerk.
(b) (i)  Upon receiving the returned absentee ballots, the district shall
compare the signature on each absentee ballot with the voter's signature that
is maintained on file and verify that the signatures are the same.
(ii)  If the district questions the authenticity of the signature on the
absentee ballot, the district shall immediately contact the voter to verify
the signature.
(iii)  If the voter does not confirm the voter's signature on the absentee
ballot, the district shall:
(A)  immediately send another absentee ballot and other voting materials as
required by this section to the voter; and
(B)  disqualify the initial absentee ballot.
