20A-3-406.   Absentee ballots for military personnel and citizens living
overseas -- Federal postcard applications for ballot.
(1) (a)  An application for an absentee ballot for a military voter who is
located in the United States shall be filed in the county clerk's office no
later than the Friday immediately before the day of election.
(b)  A member of the military voting an absentee ballot at the office of the
clerk shall apply and cast the absentee ballot no later than the day before
the election.
(2) (a) (i)  A military voter stationed overseas and an overseas citizen voter
shall file an application for a ballot with the county clerk no later than 20
days before the date of the election.
(ii)  The application for an overseas military voter under Subsection
(2)(a)(i) may be filed electronically as provided in Section 20A-3-408.5.
(b)  Upon receipt of a properly completed application for an absentee ballot
signed by a military voter or an overseas citizen voter, the county clerk
shall mail an appropriate ballot to the military voter or overseas citizen
voter.
(c)  At the time the ballot is furnished, the county clerk shall record, in a
record book provided for that purpose:
(i)  the name and home address of the military voter or overseas citizen voter
to whom the ballot is mailed;
(ii)  the address to which the ballot was mailed; and
(iii)  the date the ballot was mailed.
(d)  If the military voter or overseas citizen voter sends the absentee ballot
application to the lieutenant governor, the lieutenant governor shall forward
the application to the county clerk of the county where the military voter or
overseas citizen voter is entitled to vote.
(e)  If the county clerk rejects the application for an absentee ballot from a
military or overseas citizen voter, the county clerk shall inform the voter of
the reasons for rejecting the application.
(3)  A military voter or overseas citizen voter who is physically disabled and
unable to see or write may apply for a ballot by having a commissioned,
noncommissioned, or petty officer not below the rank of sergeant or other
person authorized to administer oaths to apply for a ballot on the voter's
behalf.
(4) (a)  A federal postcard application issued under the authority of any Act
of Congress or federal regulation is acceptable, when properly executed, as an
application for a ballot under this chapter.
(b)  The county clerk shall accept the completed postcard application as an
application for ballots for each election for federal office held in the next
general election and shall send the applicant a ballot for each of those
elections, as required by Section 20A-3-407.
(5)  The county clerk shall retain the application for use at the time the
ballot is received from the military voter or overseas citizen voter.
