62A-6-108.   Factors to be considered by court -- Evaluations -- Interview
-- Findings of fact.
(1)  If the court finds that the subject of sterilization is not capable of
giving informed consent, the court shall consider, but not by way of
limitation, the following factors concerning that person:
(a)  the nature and degree of his mental impairment, and the likelihood that
the condition is permanent;
(b)  the level of his understanding regarding the concepts of reproduction and
contraception, and whether his ability to understand those concepts is likely
to improve;
(c)  his capability for procreation or reproduction.  It is a rebuttable
presumption that the ability to procreate and reproduce exists in a person of
normal physical development;
(d)  the potentially injurious physical and psychological effects from
sterilization, pregnancy, childbirth, and parenthood;
(e)  the alternative methods of birth control presently available including,
but not limited to, drugs, intrauterine devices, education and training, and
the feasibility of one or more of those methods as an alternative to
sterilization;
(f)  the likelihood that he will engage in sexual activity or could be
sexually abused or exploited;
(g)  the method of sterilization that is medically advisable, and least
intrusive and destructive of his rights to bodily and psychological integrity;
(h)  the advisability of postponing sterilization until a later date; and
(i)  the likelihood that he could adequately care and provide for a child.
(2)  The court may require that independent medical, psychological, and social
evaluations of the subject of sterilization be made prior to ruling on a
petition for sterilization.  The court may appoint experts to perform those
examinations and evaluations and may require the petitioner, to the extent of
the petitioner's ability, to bear the costs incurred.
(3)  The court shall interview the subject of sterilization to determine his
understanding of and desire for sterilization.  The expressed preference of
the person shall be made a part of the record, and shall be considered by the
court in rendering its decision.  The court is not bound by the expressed
preference of the subject of sterilization; however, if the person expresses a
preference not to be sterilized, the court shall deny the petition unless the
petitioner proves beyond a reasonable doubt that the person will suffer
serious physical or psychological injury if the petition is denied.
(4)  When adjudicating a petition for sterilization the court shall determine,
on the basis of all the evidence, what decision regarding sterilization would
have been made by the subject of sterilization, if he were capable of giving
informed consent to sterilization.  The decision regarding sterilization shall
be in the best interest of the person to be sterilized.
(5)  If the court grants a petition for sterilization, it shall make
appropriate findings of fact in support of its order.
