62A-3-101.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Adult" or  "high risk adult" means a person 18 years of age or older who
experiences a condition:
(a)  that places the person at a high risk of being unable to care for
himself:
(i)  as determined by assessment; and
(ii)  due to the onset of a physical or cognitive impairment or frailty; and
(b)  for which the person is not eligible to receive services under:
(i)  Chapter 5, Services to People with Disabilities; or
(ii)  Chapter 15, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Act.
(2)  "Aging" and "aged" means a person 60 years of age or older.
(3)  "Area agency" means an area agency that provides services to the aged,
high risk adults, or both within a planning and service area.
(4)  "Area agency on aging" means a public or private nonprofit agency or
office designated by the division to:
(a)  operate within a planning and service area of the state; and
(b)  develop and implement a broad range of services for the aged in the area
described in Subsection (4)(a).
(5)  "Area agency on high risk adults" means a public or private nonprofit
agency or office designated by the division to:
(a)  operate within a planning and service area of the state; and
(b)  develop and implement services for high risk adults in the area described
in Subsection (5)(a).
(6)  "Board" means the Board of Aging and Adult Services.
(7)  "Director" means the director of the division.
(8)  "Division" means the Division of Aging and Adult Services within the
department.
(9)  "Personal care attendant" means a person who:
(a)  is selected by:
(i)  an aged person;
(ii)  an agent of an aged person;
(iii)  a high risk adult; or
(iv)  an agent of a high risk adult; and
(b)  provides personal services to the:
(i)  aged person described in Subsection (9)(a)(i); or
(ii)  high risk adult described in Subsection (9)(a)(iii).
(10)  "Personal services" means nonmedical care and support, including
assisting a person with:
(a)  meal preparation;
(b)  eating;
(c)  bathing;
(d)  dressing;
(e)  personal hygiene; or
(f)  daily living activities.
(11)  "Planning and service area" means a geographical area of the state
designated by the division for purposes of planning, development, delivery,
and overall administration of services for the aged or high risk adults.
(12) (a)  "Public funds" means state or federal funds that are disbursed by:
(i)  the Department of Health;
(ii)  the division;
(iii)  an area agency; or
(iv)  an area agency on aging.
(b)  "Public funds" includes:
(i)  Medicaid funds; and
(ii)  Medicaid waiver funds.
