62A-3-206.   Investigation of complaints -- Procedures.

(1) (a)  The ombudsman shall investigate each complaint he receives.  An investigation may consist of a referral to another public agency, the collecting of facts and information over the telephone, or an inspection of the long-term care facility that is named in the complaint.

(b)  The ombudsman shall notify any complainant of its decision to not pursue investigation of a complaint after the initial investigation and the reasons for the decision.

(2)  In making any investigation, the ombudsman may engage in actions it deems appropriate including, but not limited to:

(a)  making inquiries and obtaining information;

(b)  holding investigatory hearings;

(c)  entering upon and inspecting any premises, without notice to the facility, provided the investigator identifies himself upon entering the premises as a person authorized by this part to inspect the premises; and

(d)  inspecting or obtaining any book, file, medical record, or other record required by law to be retained by the long-term care facility or governmental agency, pertaining to elderly residents, subject to Subsection (3).

(3) (a)  Before reviewing a resident's records, the ombudsman shall seek to obtain written permission to review the records from the institutionalized elderly person or his legal representative.

(b)  The effort to obtain permission under Subsection (3)(a) shall include personal contact with the elderly resident or his legal representative.  If the resident or legal representative refuses to sign a release allowing access to records, the ombudsman shall record and abide by this decision.  If the attempt to obtain a signed release fails for any other reason, the ombudsman may review the records.

(4)  Following any investigation, the ombudsman shall report its findings and recommendations to the complainant, elderly residents of long-term care facilities affected by the complaint, and to the long-term care facility or governmental agency involved.



Amended by Chapter 324, 2010 General Session

