62A-3-305.   Reporting requirements -- Investigation -- Immunity -- Violation -- Penalty -- Nonmedical healing.

(1)  A person who has reason to believe that a vulnerable adult has been the subject of abuse, neglect, or exploitation shall immediately notify Adult Protective Services intake or the nearest law enforcement agency.  When the initial report is made to law enforcement, law enforcement shall immediately notify Adult Protective Services intake.  Adult Protective Services and law enforcement shall coordinate, as appropriate, their efforts to provide protection to the vulnerable adult.

(2)  When the initial report or subsequent investigation by Adult Protective Services indicates that a criminal offense may have occurred against a vulnerable adult:

(a)  Adult Protective Services shall notify the nearest local law enforcement agency regarding the potential offense; and

(b)  the law enforcement agency may initiate an investigation in cooperation with Adult Protective Services.

(3)  A person who in good faith makes a report or otherwise notifies a law enforcement agency or Adult Protective Services of suspected abuse, neglect, or exploitation is immune from civil and criminal liability in connection with the report or other notification.

(4) (a)  A person who willfully fails to report suspected abuse, neglect, or exploitation of a vulnerable adult is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

(b)  A covered provider or covered contractor, as defined in Section 26-21-201, that knowingly fails to report suspected abuse or neglect, as required by this section, is subject to a private right of action and liability for the abuse or neglect of another person that is committed by the individual who was not reported to Adult Protective Services in accordance with this section.

(5)  Under circumstances not amounting to a violation of Section 76-8-508, a person who threatens, intimidates, or attempts to intimidate a vulnerable adult who is the subject of a report, a witness, the person who made the report, or any other person cooperating with an investigation conducted pursuant to this chapter is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

(6)  An adult is not considered abused, neglected, or a vulnerable adult for the reason that the adult has chosen to rely solely upon religious, nonmedical forms of healing in lieu of medical care.

