13-37-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Affiliate" means a person that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with:

(a)  a commercial entity; and

(b) (i)  directly; or

(ii)  indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

(2) (a)  Subject to Subsection (2)(b), "commercial entity" means a person that:

(i)  has an office or other place of business located in the state; and

(ii)  in the ordinary course of business transacts a consumer transaction in this state.

(b)  "Commercial entity" does not include:

(i)  a governmental entity; or

(ii)  an entity providing services on behalf of a governmental entity.

(3)  "Compensation" means anything of economic value that is paid or transferred to a commercial entity for or in direct consideration of the disclosure of nonpublic personal information.

(4) (a)  "Consumer transaction" means:

(i)  a sale, lease, assignment, award by chance, or other written or oral transfer or disposition:

(A)  that is initiated or completed in this state; and

(B)  of:

(I)  goods;

(II)  services; or

(III)  other tangible or intangible property, except securities and insurance or services related thereto; or

(ii)  a transaction:

(A)  that is initiated or completed in this state; and

(B)  that constitutes credit offered or extended by a commercial entity to a person primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.

(b)  "Consumer transaction" includes:

(i)  the use of nonpublic personal information in relation to a transaction with a person if the transaction is for primarily personal, family, or household purposes; and

(ii)  with respect to any transaction described in Subsection (4)(a):

(A)  an offer or solicitation;

(B)  an agreement;

(C)  the performance of an agreement; or

(D)  a charitable solicitation as defined in Section 13-11-3.

(c) "Consumer transaction" does not include a transaction related to real property.

(5) (a)  "Nonpublic personal information" means information that:

(i)  is not public information; and

(ii)  either alone or in conjunction with public information, identifies a person in distinction from other persons.

(b)  "Nonpublic personal information" includes:

(i)  a person's Social Security number;

(ii)  information used to determine a person's credit worthiness including a person's:

(A)  income; or

(B)  employment history;

(iii)  the purchasing patterns of a person; or

(iv)  the personal preferences of a person.

(6)  "Public information" means a person's:

(a)  name;

(b)  telephone number; or

(c)  street address.

(7) (a)  Subject to Subsection (7)(b), "third party" means a person other than the commercial entity that obtains nonpublic personal information.

(b)  "Third party" does not include an affiliate or agent of the commercial entity that obtains nonpublic personal information.

