72-3-109.   Division of responsibility with respect to state highways in
cities and towns.
(1)  Except as provided in Subsection (3), the jurisdiction and responsibility
of the department and the municipalities for state highways within
municipalities is as follows:
(a)  The department has jurisdiction over and is responsible for the
construction and maintenance of:
(i)  the portion of the state highway located between the back of the curb on
either side of the state highway; or
(ii)  if there is no curb, the traveled way, its contiguous shoulders, and
appurtenances.
(b)  The department may widen or improve state highways within municipalities.
(c) (i) A municipality has jurisdiction over all other portions of the right-
of-way and is responsible for construction and maintenance of the right-of-
way.
(ii)  If a municipality grants permission for the installation of any pole,
pipeline, conduit, sewer, ditch, culvert, billboard, advertising sign, or any
other structure or object of any kind or character within the portion of the
right-of-way under its jurisdiction:
(A)  the permission shall contain the condition that any installation will be
removed from the right-of-way at the request of the municipality; and
(B)  the municipality shall cause any installation to be removed at the
request of the department when the department finds the removal necessary:
(I)  to eliminate a hazard to traffic safety;
(II)  for the construction and maintenance of the state highway; or
(III)  to meet the requirements of federal regulations.
(d)  If it is necessary that a utility, as defined in Section 72-6-116, be
relocated, reimbursement shall be made for the relocation as provided for in
Section 72-6-116.
(e) (i)  The department shall construct curbs, gutters, and sidewalks on the
state highways if necessary for the proper control of traffic, driveway
entrances, or drainage.
(ii)  If a state highway is widened or altered and existing curbs, gutters, or
sidewalks are removed, the department shall replace the curbs, gutters, or
sidewalks.
(f)  The department may furnish and install street lighting systems for state
highways, but their operation and maintenance is the responsibility of the
municipality.
(g)  If new storm sewer facilities are necessary in the construction and
maintenance of the state highways, the cost of the storm sewer facilities
shall be borne by the state and the municipality in a proportion mutually
agreed upon between the department and the municipality.
(2) (a)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act, the department shall make rules governing the location and
construction of approach roads and driveways entering the state highway.  The
rules shall:
(i)  include criteria for the design, location, and spacing of approach roads
and driveways based on the functional classification of the adjacent highway,
including the urban or rural nature of the area;
(ii)  be consistent with the "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices" and
the model access management policy or ordinance developed by the department
under Subsection 72-2-117(9);
(iii)  include procedures for:
(A)  the application and review of a permit for approach roads and driveways
including review of related site plans that have been recommended according to
local ordinances; and
(B)  approving, modifying, denying, or appealing the modification or denial of
a permit for approach roads and driveways within 45 days of receipt of the
application; and
(iv)  require written justifications for modifying or denying a permit.
(b)  The department may delegate the administration of the rules to the
highway authorities of a municipality.
(c)  In accordance with this section and Section 72-7-104, an approach road or
driveway may not be constructed on a state highway without a permit issued
under this section.
(3)  The department has jurisdiction and control over the entire right-of-way
of interstate highways within municipalities and is responsible for the
construction, maintenance, and regulation of the interstate highways within
municipalities.
