72-3-301.   Statewide public safety interest highway defined -- Designations -- Control -- Maintenance -- Improvement restrictions -- Formula funding provisions.

(1)  As used in this part, "statewide public safety interest highway" means a designated state highway that serves a compelling statewide public safety interest.

(2)  Statewide public safety interest highways include:

(a)  SR-900.  From near the east bound on and off ramps of the I-80 Delle Interchange on the I-80 south frontage road, traversing northwesterly, westerly, and northeasterly, including on portions of a county road and a Bureau of Land Management road for a distance of 9.24 miles.  Then beginning again at the I-80 south frontage road traversing southwesterly and northwesterly on a county road for a distance of 4.33 miles.  Then beginning again at the I-80 south frontage road traversing southwesterly, northerly, northwesterly, westerly, and northeasterly on a county road and  a Bureau of Land Management road to near the east bound on and off ramps of I-80 Low/Lakeside Interchange for a distance of 2.61 miles.  The entire length of SR-900 is a total distance of 16.18 miles.

(b)  SR-901.  From SR-196 traversing westerly and northwesterly on a county road to a junction with a Bureau of Land Management road described as part of SR-901, then northwesterly to a junction with a county road for a distance of 8.70 miles.  Then beginning again at a junction with SR-901 traversing northwesterly on a Bureau of Land Management road to a junction with a county road for a distance of 6.52 miles.  Then beginning again at a junction with SR-901 traversing southwesterly on a Bureau of Land Management road to a junction with a county road for a distance of 5.44 miles.  Then beginning again from a junction with SR-901 traversing southwesterly on a county road to a junction with a county road a distance of 11.52 miles.  Then beginning again at a junction with SR-196 traversing westerly on a Bureau of Land Management road to a junction with a county road for a distance of 11.30 miles.  The entire length of SR-901 is a total distance of 43.48 miles.

(3)  The department has jurisdiction and control over all statewide public safety interest highways.

(4) (a)  A county shall maintain the portions of a statewide public safety interest highway that was a class B county road under the county's jurisdiction prior to the designation under this section.

(b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 17-50-305, a county may not abandon any portion of a statewide public safety interest highway.

(c)  Except under written authorization of the executive director of the department, a statewide public safety interest highway shall remain the same class of highway that it was prior to the designation under this section with respect to grade, drainage, surface, and improvements and it may not be upgraded or improved to a higher class of highway.

(5)  A class B county road that is designated a statewide public safety interest highway under this section is considered a class B county road for the purposes of the distribution formula and distributions of funds.  The amount of funds received by any jurisdiction from the class B and C roads account under Section 72-2-107 may not be affected by the provisions of this section.

