75-5b-302.   Accepting guardianship or conservatorship transferred from
another state.
(1)  To confirm transfer of a guardianship or conservatorship transferred to
this state under provisions similar to Section 75-5b-301, the guardian or
conservator shall petition the court in this state to accept the guardianship
or conservatorship.  The petition shall include a certified copy of the other
state's provisional order of transfer.
(2)  Notice of a petition under Subsection (1) shall be given by the
petitioner to those persons who would be entitled to notice if the petition
were a petition for the appointment of a guardian or issuance of a protective
order in both the transferring state and this state.  The notice shall be
given in the same manner as notice is given in this state.
(3)  On the court's own motion or on request of the incapacitated or protected
person, or other person required to be notified of the proceeding, the court
shall hold a hearing on a petition filed pursuant to Subsection (1).
(4)  The court shall issue an order provisionally granting a petition filed
under Subsection (1) unless:
(a)  an objection is made and the objector establishes that transfer of the
proceeding would be contrary to the interests of the incapacitated or
protected person; or
(b)  the guardian or conservator is ineligible for appointment in this state.
(5)  The court shall issue a final order accepting the proceeding and
appointing the guardian or conservator as guardian or conservator in this
state upon its receipt from the court from which the proceeding is being
transferred of a final order issued under provisions similar to Section
75-5b-301 transferring the proceeding to this state.
(6)  Not later than 90 days after issuance of a final order accepting transfer
of a guardianship or conservatorship, the court shall determine whether the
guardianship or conservatorship needs to be modified to conform to the law of
this state.
(7)  In granting a petition under this section, the court shall recognize a
guardianship or conservatorship order from the other state, including the
determination of the incapacitated or protected person's incapacity and the
appointment of the guardian or conservator.
(8)  The denial by a court of this state of a petition to accept a
guardianship or conservatorship transferred from another state does not affect
the ability of the guardian or conservator to seek appointment as guardian or
conservator in this state under Title 75, Chapter 5, Part 3, Guardians of
Incapacitated Persons, if the court has jurisdiction to make an appointment
other than by reason of the provisional order of transfer.
