76-10-526.   Criminal background check prior to purchase of a firearm -- Fee
-- Exemption for concealed firearm permit holders.
(1)  For purposes of this section, "valid permit to carry a concealed firearm"
does not include a temporary permit issued pursuant to Section 53-5-705.
(2) (a)  To establish personal identification and residence in this state for
purposes of this part, a dealer shall require an individual receiving a
firearm to present one photo identification on a form issued by a governmental
agency of the state.
(b)  A dealer may not accept a driving privilege card issued in accordance
with Section 53-3-207 as proof of identification for the purpose of
establishing personal identification and residence in this state as required
under this Subsection (2).
(3)  A criminal history background check is required for the sale of a firearm
by a licensed firearm dealer in the state.
(4) (a)  An individual, except a dealer, purchasing a firearm from a dealer
shall consent in writing to a criminal background check, on a form provided by
the bureau.
(b)  The form shall contain the following information:
(i)  the dealer identification number;
(ii)  the name and address of the individual receiving the firearm;
(iii)  the date of birth, height, weight, eye color, and hair color of the
individual receiving the firearm; and
(iv)  the Social Security number or any other identification number of the
individual receiving the firearm.
(5) (a)  The dealer shall send the form required by Subsection (4) to the
bureau immediately upon its completion.
(b)  A dealer may not sell or transfer a firearm to an individual until the
dealer has provided the bureau with the information in Subsection (4) and has
received approval from the bureau under Subsection (7).
(6)  The dealer shall make a request for criminal history background
information by telephone or other electronic means to the bureau and shall
receive approval or denial of the inquiry by telephone or other electronic
means.
(7)  When the dealer calls for or requests a criminal history background
check, the bureau shall:
(a)  review the criminal history files, including juvenile court records, to
determine if the individual is prohibited from purchasing, possessing, or
transferring a firearm by state or federal law;
(b)  inform the dealer that:
(i)  the records indicate the individual is so prohibited; or
(ii)  the individual is approved for purchasing, possessing, or transferring a
firearm;
(c)  provide the dealer with a unique transaction number for that inquiry; and
(d)  provide a response to the requesting dealer during the call for a
criminal background, or by return call, or other electronic means, without
delay, except in case of electronic failure or other circumstances beyond the
control of the bureau, the bureau shall advise the dealer of the reason for
the delay and give the dealer an estimate of the length of the delay.
(8) (a)  The bureau may not maintain any records of the criminal history
background check longer than 20 days from the date of the dealer's request if
the bureau determines that the individual receiving the gun is not prohibited
from purchasing, possessing, or transferring the firearm under state or
federal law.
(b)  However, the bureau shall maintain a log of requests containing the
dealer's federal firearms number, the transaction number, and the transaction
date for a period of 12 months.
(9)  If the criminal history background check discloses information indicating
that the individual attempting to purchase the firearm is prohibited from
purchasing, possessing, or transferring a firearm, the bureau shall inform the
law enforcement agency in the jurisdiction where the person resides.
(10)  If an individual is denied the right to purchase a firearm under this
section, the individual may review the individual's criminal history
information and may challenge or amend the information as provided in Section
53-10-108.
(11)  The bureau shall make rules as provided in Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act, to ensure the identity, confidentiality, and
security of all records provided by the division pursuant to this part are in
conformance with the requirements of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention
Act, Pub. L. No. 103-159, 107 Stat. 1536 (1993).
(12) (a) (i)  A dealer shall collect a criminal history background check fee
related to the sale of a firearm under this section, which is $7.50.
(ii)  This fee remains in effect until changed by the bureau through the
process under Section 63J-1-504.
(b) (i)  The dealer shall forward at one time all fees collected for criminal
history background checks performed during the month to the bureau by the last
day of the month following the sale of a firearm.
(ii)  The bureau shall deposit the fees in the General Fund as dedicated
credits to cover the cost of administering and conducting the criminal history
background check program.
(13)  An individual with a concealed firearm permit issued pursuant to Title
53, Chapter 5, Part 7, Concealed Firearm Act, is exempt from the background
check and corresponding fee required in this section for the purchase of a
firearm if:
(a)  the individual presents the individual's concealed firearm permit to the
dealer prior to purchase of the firearm; and
(b)  the dealer verifies with the division that the individual's concealed
firearm permit is valid.
