76-10-529.   Possession of dangerous weapons, firearms, or explosives in
airport secure areas prohibited -- Penalty.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Airport authority" has the same meaning as defined in Section 72-10-102.
(b)  "Dangerous weapon" is the same as defined in Section 76-10-501.
(c)  "Explosive" is the same as defined for "explosive, chemical, or
incendiary device" in Section 76-10-306.
(d)  "Firearm" is the same as defined in Section 76-10-501.
(2) (a)  Within a secure area of an airport established pursuant to this
section, a person, including a person licensed to carry a concealed firearm
under Title 53, Chapter 5, Part 7, Concealed Weapon Act, is guilty of:
(i)  a class A misdemeanor if the person knowingly or intentionally possesses
any dangerous weapon or firearm;
(ii)  an infraction if the person recklessly or with criminal negligence
possesses any dangerous weapon or firearm; or
(iii)  a violation of Section 76-10-306 if the person transports, possesses,
distributes, or sells any explosive, chemical, or incendiary device.
(b)  Subsection (2)(a) does not apply to:
(i)  persons exempted under Section 76-10-523; and
(ii)  members of the state or federal military forces while engaged in the
performance of their official duties.
(3)  An airport authority, county, or municipality regulating the airport may:
(a)  establish any secure area located beyond the main area where the public
generally buys tickets, checks and retrieves luggage; and
(b)  use reasonable means, including mechanical, electronic, x-ray, or any
other device, to detect dangerous weapons, firearms, or explosives concealed
in baggage or upon the person of any individual attempting to enter the secure
area.
(4)  At least one notice shall be prominently displayed at each entrance to a
secure area in which a dangerous weapon, firearm, or explosive is restricted.
(5)  Upon the discovery of any dangerous weapon, firearm, or explosive, the
airport authority, county, or municipality, the employees, or other personnel
administering the secure area may:
(a)  require the individual to deliver the item to the air freight office or
airline ticket counter;
(b)  require the individual to exit the secure area; or
(c)  obtain possession or retain custody of the item until it is transferred
to law enforcement officers.
