76-10-1209.    Injunctive relief -- Jurisdiction -- Consent to be sued --
Service of process.
(1)  The district courts of this state shall have full power, authority, and
jurisdiction, upon application by any county attorney or city attorney within
their respective jurisdictions or the attorney general, to issue any and all
proper restraining orders, preliminary and permanent injunctions, and any
other writs and processes appropriate to carry out and enforce the provisions
of this part.  No restraining order or injunction, however, shall issue except
upon notice to the person sought to be enjoined.  That person shall be
entitled to a trial of the issues commencing within three days after filing of
an answer to the complaint and a decision shall be rendered by the court
within two days after the conclusion of the trial.  If a final order or
judgment of injunction is entered against the person sought to be enjoined,
this final order or judgment shall contain a provision directing the person to
surrender to the sheriff of the county in which the action was brought any
pornographic material in the person's possession which is subject to the
injunction; and the sheriff shall be directed to seize and destroy this
material.
(2)  Any person not qualified to do business in the state who sends or brings
any pornographic material into the state with the intent to distribute or
exhibit it to others in this state thereby consents that the person may be
sued in any proceedings commenced under this section and therefor appoints the
director of the Division of Corporations and Commercial Code to be the agent
upon whom may be served all legal process against that person.  Service of
process shall be made by serving a copy of same upon the director of the
Division of Corporations and Commercial Code or by filing the copy in that
office, together with payment of a fee determined by the division pursuant to
Section 63J-1-504.  This service shall be sufficient service upon the
defendant if:
(a)  notice of the service and a copy of the process are within ten days
thereafter sent by mail by the prosecuting attorney to the defendant at the
address of the defendant that appears on any material exhibited or
distributed, and if no address appears, then the last known address of the
defendant; and
(b)  the prosecuting attorney's affidavit of compliance with the provisions of
this Subsection (2) are attached to the summons.  The Division of Corporations
and Commercial Code shall keep a record of all the process served upon it
under this section, showing the day and hour of the service.  Nothing in this
Subsection (2) shall be construed to limit the operation of Rule 17(e) of the
Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.
(3)  This section shall not be construed in any way to limit the district
courts in the exercise of their jurisdiction under any other provision of law.
