76-10-1230.   Definitions.
As used in Sections 76-10-1231 and 76-10-1233:
(1)  "Consumer" means a natural person residing in this state who subscribes
to a service provided by a service provider for personal or residential use.
(2)  "Content provider" means a person domiciled in Utah or that generates or
hosts content in Utah, and that creates, collects, acquires, or organizes
electronic data for electronic delivery to a consumer with the intent of
making a profit.
(3) (a)  "Hosting company" means a person that provides services or facilities
for storing or distributing content over the Internet without editorial or
creative alteration of the content.
(b)  A hosting company may have policies concerning acceptable use without
becoming a content provider under Subsection (2).
(4) (a)  "Internet service provider" means a person engaged in the business of
providing a computer communications facility in Utah, with the intent of
making a profit, through which a consumer may obtain access to the Internet.
(b)  "Internet service provider" does not include a common carrier if it
provides only telecommunications service.
(5)  "Properly rated" means content using a labeling system to label material
harmful to minors provided by the content provider in a way that:
(a)  accurately apprises a consumer of the presence of material harmful to
minors; and
(b)  allows the consumer the ability to control access to material harmful to
minors based on the material's rating by use of reasonably priced commercially
available software, including software in the public domain.
(6)  "Restrict" means to limit access to material harmful to minors by:
(a)  properly rating content; or
(b)  any other reasonable measures feasible under available technology.
(7) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(b), "service provider" means an
Internet service provider.
(b)  "Service provider" does not include a person who does not terminate a
service in this state, but merely transmits data through:
(i)  a wire;
(ii)  a cable; or
(iii)  an antenna.
(c)  "Service provider," notwithstanding Subsection (7)(b), includes a person
who meets the requirements of Subsection (7)(a) and leases or rents a wire or
cable for the transmission of data.
