76-10-1231.   Data service providers -- Internet content harmful to minors.

(1) (a)  Upon request by a consumer, a service provider shall filter content to prevent the transmission of material harmful to minors to the consumer.

(b)  A service provider complies with Subsection (1)(a) if it uses a generally accepted and commercially reasonable method of filtering.

(2)  At the time of a consumer's subscription to a service provider's service, or at the time this section takes effect if the consumer subscribes to the service provider's service at the time this section takes effect, the service provider shall notify the consumer in a conspicuous manner that the consumer may request to have material harmful to minors blocked under Subsection (1).

(3) (a)  A service provider may comply with Subsection (1) by:

(i)  providing in-network filtering to prevent receipt of material harmful to minors, provided that the filtering does not affect or interfere with access to Internet content for consumers who do not request filtering under Subsection (1); or

(ii)  providing software, engaging a third party to provide software, or referring users to a third party that provides filtering software, by providing a clear and conspicuous hyperlink or written statement, for installation on the consumer's computer that blocks, in an easy-to-enable and commercially reasonable manner, receipt of material harmful to minors.

(b)  A service provider may charge a consumer for providing filtering under Subsection (3)(a).

(4)  If the attorney general determines that a service provider violates Subsection (1) or (2), the attorney general shall:

(a)  notify the service provider that the service provider is in violation of Subsection (1) or (2); and

(b)  notify the service provider that the service provider has 30 days to comply with the provision being violated or be subject to Subsection (5).

(5)  A service provider that intentionally or knowingly violates Subsection (1) or (2) is subject to a civil fine of $2,500 for each separate violation of Subsection (1) or (2), up to $10,000 per day.

(6)  A proceeding to impose a civil fine under Subsection (5) may only be brought by the attorney general in a court of competent jurisdiction.

(7) (a)  The Division of Consumer Protection within the Department of Commerce shall, in consultation with other entities as the Division of Consumer Protection considers appropriate, test the effectiveness of a service provider's system for blocking material harmful to minors under Subsection (1) at least annually.

(b)  The results of testing by the Division of Consumer Protection under Subsection (7)(a) shall be made available to:

(i)  the service provider that is the subject of the test; and

(ii)  the public.

(c)  The Division of Consumer Protection shall make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to fulfil its duties under this section.

