76-10-1801 (Superseded 11/01/10).   Communications fraud -- Elements --
Penalties.
(1)  Any person who has devised any scheme or artifice to defraud another or
to obtain from another money, property, or anything of value by means of false
or fraudulent pretenses, representations, promises, or material omissions, and
who communicates directly or indirectly with any person by any means for the
purpose of executing or concealing the scheme or artifice is guilty of:
(a)  a class B misdemeanor when the value of the property, money, or thing
obtained or sought to be obtained is less than $300;
(b)  a class A misdemeanor when the value of the property, money, or thing
obtained or sought to be obtained is or exceeds $300 but is less than $1,000;
(c)  a third degree felony when the value of the property, money, or thing
obtained or sought to be obtained is or exceeds $1,000 but is less than
$5,000;
(d)  a second degree felony when the value of the property, money, or thing
obtained or sought to be obtained is or exceeds $5,000; and
(e)  a second degree felony when the object or purpose of the scheme or
artifice to defraud is the obtaining of sensitive personal identifying
information, regardless of the value.
(2)  The determination of the degree of any offense under Subsection (1) shall
be measured by the total value of all property, money, or things obtained or
sought to be obtained by the scheme or artifice described in Subsection (1)
except as provided in Subsection (1)(e).
(3)  Reliance on the part of any person is not a necessary element of the
offense described in Subsection (1).
(4)  An intent on the part of the perpetrator of any offense described in
Subsection (1) to permanently deprive any person of property, money, or thing
of value is not a necessary element of the offense.
(5)  Each separate communication made for the purpose of executing or
concealing a scheme or artifice described in Subsection (1) is a separate act
and offense of communication fraud.
(6) (a)  To communicate as described in Subsection (1) means to:
(i)  bestow, convey, make known, recount, or impart;
(ii)  give by way of information;
(iii)  talk over; or
(iv)  transmit information.
(b)  Means of communication include use of the mail, telephone, telegraph,
radio, television, newspaper, computer, and spoken and written communication.
(7)  A person may not be convicted under this section unless the pretenses,
representations, promises, or material omissions made or omitted were made or
omitted intentionally, knowingly, or with a reckless disregard for the truth.
(8)  As used in this section, "sensitive personal identifying information"
means information regarding an individual's:
(a)  Social Security number;
(b)  driver's license number or other government issued identification number;
(c)  financial account number or credit or debit card number;
(d)  password or personal identification number or other identification
required to gain access to a financial account or a secure website;
(e)  automated or electronic signature;
(f)  unique biometric data; or
(g)  any other information that can be used to gain access to an individual's
financial accounts or to obtain goods or services.
