76-10-2701.   Destructive or injurious materials on parks, recreation areas,
waterways, or other public or private lands -- Enforcement officers -- Litter
receptacles required.
(1)  A person may not throw, deposit, or discard, or permit to be dropped,
thrown, deposited, or discarded on any park, recreation area, or other public
or private land, or waterway, any glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire,
cans, barbed wire, boards, trash or garbage, paper or paper products, or any
other substance which would or could mar or impair the scenic aspect or beauty
of the land in the state whether under private, state, county, municipal, or
federal ownership without the permission of the owner or person having control
or custody of the land.
(2)  A person who drops, throws, deposits, or discards, or permits to be
dropped, thrown, deposited, or discarded, on any park, recreation area, or
other public or private land or waterway any destructive, injurious, or
unsightly material shall:
(a)  immediately remove the material or cause it to be removed; and
(b)  deposit the material in a receptacle designed to receive the material.
(3)  A person distributing commercial handbills, leaflets, or other
advertising shall take whatever measures are reasonably necessary to keep the
material from littering public or private property.
(4)  A person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a park, recreation
area, or other public or private land shall remove any glass or other
injurious substance dropped from the vehicle in the park, recreation area, or
other public or private land.
(5)  A person in charge of a construction or demolition site shall take
reasonable steps to prevent the accumulation of litter at the construction or
demolition site.
(6)  A law enforcement officer as defined in Section 53-13-103, within the law
enforcement officer's jurisdiction:
(a)  shall enforce the provisions of this section;
(b)  may issue citations to a person who violates any of the provisions of
this section; and
(c)  may serve and execute all warrants, citations, and other processes issued
by any court in enforcing this section.
(7)  An operator of a park, campground, trailer park, drive-in restaurant,
gasoline service station, shopping center, grocery store parking lot, tavern
parking lot, parking lots of industrial firms, marina, boat launching area,
boat moorage and fueling station, public and private pier, beach, and bathing
area shall maintain sufficient litter receptacles on the premises to
accommodate the litter that accumulates.
(8)  A municipality within its corporate limits and a county outside of
incorporated municipalities may enact local ordinances to carry out the
provisions of this section.
