76-10-2901.   Transporting or harboring aliens -- Definition -- Penalty.

(1) As used in this part:

(a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), "alien" means an individual who is illegally present in the United States.

(b)  On or after the program start date, as defined in Section 63G-12-102, "alien" does not include an individual who holds a valid permit, as defined in Section 63G-12-102.

(2)  It is unlawful for a person to:

(a)  transport, move, or attempt to transport into this state or within the state an alien for commercial advantage or private financial gain, knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that the alien is in the United States in violation of federal law, in furtherance of the illegal presence of the alien in the United States;

(b)  knowingly, with the intent to violate federal immigration law, conceal, harbor, or shelter from detection an alien in a place within this state, including a building or means of transportation for commercial advantage or private financial gain, knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that the alien is in the United States in violation of federal law;

(c)  encourage or induce an alien to come to, enter, or reside in this state, knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that the alien's coming to, entry, or residence is or will be in violation of law; or

(d)  engage in a conspiracy, for commercial advantage or private financial gain, to commit any of the offenses listed in this Subsection (2).

(3) (a)  A person who violates Subsection (2)(a), (c), or (d) is guilty of a third degree felony.

(b)  A person who violates Subsection (2)(b) is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.

(4)  Nothing in this part prohibits or restricts the provision of:

(a)  a state or local public benefit described in 8 U.S.C. Sec. 1621(b); or

(b)  charitable or humanitarian assistance, including medical care, housing, counseling, food, victim assistance, religious services and sacraments, and transportation to and from a location where the assistance is provided, by a charitable, educational, or religious organization or its employees, agents, or volunteers, using private funds.

(5) (a)  It is not a violation of this part for a religious denomination or organization or an agent, officer, or member of a religious denomination or organization to encourage, invite, call, allow, or enable an alien to perform the vocation of a minister or missionary for the denomination or organization in the United States as a volunteer who is not compensated as an employee, notwithstanding the provision of room, board, travel, medical assistance, and other basic living expenses.

(b)  Subsection (5)(a) applies only to an alien who has been a member of the religious denomination or organization for at least one year.

(6)  An individual's participation in Title 63G, Chapter 14, Utah Pilot Sponsored Resident Immigrant Program Act, either as a sponsor or resident alien does not constitute encouraging or inducing an alien to come to, enter, or reside in this state in violation of Subsection (2)(c).

