63M-7-502.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Accomplice" means a person who has engaged in criminal conduct as
defined in Section 76-2-202.
(2)  "Board" means the Crime Victim Reparations Board created under Section
63M-7-504.
(3)  "Bodily injury" means physical pain, illness, or any impairment of
physical condition.
(4)  "Claim" means:
(a)  the victim's application or request for a reparations award; and
(b)  the formal action taken by a victim to apply for reparations pursuant to
Sections 63M-7-501 through 63M-7-525.
(5)  "Claimant" means any of the following claiming reparations under this
chapter:
(a)  a victim;
(b)  a dependent of a deceased victim;
(c)  a representative other than a collateral source; or
(d)  the person or representative who files a claim on behalf of a victim.
(6)  "Child" means an unemancipated person who is under 18 years of age.
(7)  "Collateral source" means the definition as provided in Section
63M-7-513.
(8)  "Contested case" means a case which the claimant contests, claiming the
award was either inadequate or denied, or which a county attorney, a district
attorney, a law enforcement officer, or other individual related to the
criminal investigation proffers reasonable evidence of the claimant's lack of
cooperation in the prosecution of a case after an award has already been
given.
(9) (a)  "Criminally injurious conduct" other than acts of war declared or not
declared means conduct that:
(i)  is or would be subject to prosecution in this state under Section
76-1-201;
(ii)  occurs or is attempted;
(iii)  causes, or poses a substantial threat of causing, bodily injury or
death;
(iv)  is punishable by fine, imprisonment, or death if the person engaging in
the conduct possessed the capacity to commit the conduct; and
(v)  does not arise out of the ownership, maintenance, or use of a motor
vehicle, aircraft, or water craft, unless the conduct is intended to cause
bodily injury or death, or is conduct which is or would be punishable under
Title 76, Chapter 5, Offenses Against the Person, or as any offense chargeable
as driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
(b)  "Criminally injurious conduct" includes an act of terrorism, as defined
in 18 U.S.C. 2331 committed outside of the United States against a resident of
this state.  "Terrorism" does not include an "act of war" as defined in 18
U.S.C. 2331.
(10)  "Dependent" means a natural person to whom the victim is wholly or
partially legally responsible for care or support and includes a child of the
victim born after the victim's death.
(11)  "Dependent's economic loss" means loss after the victim's death of
contributions of things of economic value to the victim's dependent, not
including services the dependent would have received from the victim if the
victim had not suffered the fatal injury, less expenses of the dependent
avoided by reason of victim's death.
(12)  "Dependent's replacement services loss" means loss reasonably and
necessarily incurred by the dependent after the victim's death in obtaining
services in lieu of those the decedent would have performed for the victim's
benefit if the victim had not suffered the fatal injury, less expenses of the
dependent avoided by reason of the victim's death and not subtracted in
calculating the dependent's economic loss.
(13)  "Director" means the director of the Office of Crime Victim Reparations.
(14)  "Disposition" means the sentencing or determination of penalty or
punishment to be imposed upon a person:
(a)  convicted of a crime;
(b)  found delinquent; or
(c)  against whom a finding of sufficient facts for conviction or finding of
delinquency is made.
(15)  "Economic loss" means economic detriment consisting only of allowable
expense, work loss, replacement services loss, and if injury causes death,
dependent's economic loss and dependent's replacement service loss.
Noneconomic detriment is not loss, but economic detriment is loss although
caused by pain and suffering or physical impairment.
(16)  "Elderly victim" means a person 60 years of age or older who is a
victim.
(17)  "Fraudulent claim" means a filed claim based on material
misrepresentation of fact and intended to deceive the reparations staff for
the purpose of obtaining reparation funds for which the claimant is not
eligible as provided in Section 63M-7-510.
(18)  "Fund" means the Crime Victim Reparations Fund created in Section
51-9-404.
(19)  "Law enforcement officer" means a law enforcement officer as defined in
Section 53-13-103.
(20)  "Medical examination" means a physical examination necessary to document
criminally injurious conduct but does not include mental health evaluations
for the prosecution and investigation of a crime.
(21)  "Mental health counseling" means outpatient and inpatient counseling
necessitated as a result of criminally injurious conduct.  The definition of
mental health counseling is subject to rules promulgated by the board pursuant
to Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(22)  "Misconduct" as provided in Subsection 63M-7-512(1)(b) means conduct by
the victim which was attributable to the injury or death of the victim as
provided by rules promulgated by the board pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(23)  "Noneconomic detriment" means pain, suffering, inconvenience, physical
impairment, and other nonpecuniary damage, except as provided in this chapter.
(24)  "Pecuniary loss" does not include loss attributable to pain and
suffering except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(25)  "Offender" means a person who has violated the criminal code through
criminally injurious conduct regardless of whether the person is arrested,
prosecuted, or convicted.
(26)  "Offense" means a violation of the criminal code.
(27)  "Office of Crime Victim Reparations" or "office" means the office of the
reparations staff for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this
chapter.
(28)  "Perpetrator" means the person who actually participated in the
criminally injurious conduct.
(29)  "Personal property" has the same definition as provided in Section
68-3-12.
(30)  "Reparations officer" means a person employed by the office to
investigate claims of victims and award reparations under this chapter, and
includes the director when the director is acting as a reparations officer.
(31)  "Reparations staff" means the director, the reparations officers, and
any other staff employed to administer the Crime Victim Reparations Act.
(32)  "Replacement service loss" means expenses reasonably and necessarily
incurred in obtaining ordinary and necessary services in lieu of those the
injured person would have performed, not for income but the benefit of the
injured person or the injured person's dependents if the injured person had
not been injured.
(33)  "Representative" means the victim, immediate family member, legal
guardian, attorney, conservator, executor, or an heir of a person but does not
include service providers.
(34)  "Restitution" means money or services an appropriate authority orders an
offender to pay or render to a victim of the offender's conduct.
(35)  "Secondary victim" means a person who is traumatically affected by the
criminally injurious conduct subject to rules promulgated by the board
pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(36)  "Service provider" means a person or agency who provides a service to
crime victims for a monetary fee except attorneys as provided in Section
63M-7-524.
(37) (a)  "Victim" means a person who suffers bodily or psychological injury
or death as a direct result of criminally injurious conduct or of the
production of pornography in violation of Sections 76-5a-1 through 76-5a-4 if
the person is a minor.
(b)  "Victim" does not include a person who participated in or observed the
judicial proceedings against an offender unless otherwise provided by statute
or rule.
(c)  "Victim" includes a resident of this state who is injured or killed by an
act of terrorism, as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2331, committed outside of the
United States.
(38)  "Work loss" means loss of income from work the injured victim would have
performed if the injured victim had not been injured and expenses reasonably
incurred by the injured victim in obtaining services in lieu of those the
injured victim would have performed for income, reduced by any income from
substitute work the injured victim was capable of performing but unreasonably
failed to undertake.
