63M-7-503.   Restitution -- Reparations not to supplant restitution -- Assignment of claim for restitution judgment to Reparations Office.

(1)  A reparations award may not supplant restitution as established under Title 77, Chapter 38a, Crime Victims Restitution Act, or as established by any other provisions.

(2)  The court may not reduce an order of restitution based on a reparations award.

(3)  If, due to reparation payments to a victim, the Utah Office for Victims of Crime is assigned under Section 63M-7-519 a claim for the victim's judgment for restitution or a portion of the restitution, the office may file with the sentencing court a notice of the assignment.  The notice of assignment shall be signed by the victim and a reparations officer and shall contain an affidavit detailing the specific amounts of pecuniary damages paid on behalf of the victim.  A copy of the notice of assignment and affidavit shall be mailed by certified mail to the defendant at his last known address 20 days prior to sentencing, entry of any judgment or order of restitution, or modification of any existing judgment or order of restitution.  Any objection by the defendant to the imposition or amount of restitution shall be made at the time of sentencing or in writing within 20 days of the receipt of notice, to be filed with the court and a copy mailed to the office.  Upon the filing of the objection, the court shall allow the defendant a full hearing on the issue as provided by Subsection 77-38a-302(4).

(4)  If no objection is made or filed by the defendant, then upon conviction and sentencing, the court shall enter a judgment for complete restitution pursuant to the provisions of Subsections 76-3-201(4)(c) and (d) and identify the office as the assignee of the assigned portion of the judgment and order of restitution.

(5)  If the notice of assignment is filed after sentencing but during the term of probation or parole, the court or Board of Pardons shall modify any existing civil judgment and order of restitution to include expenses paid by the office on behalf of the victim and identify the office as the assignee of the assigned portion of the judgment and order of restitution.  If no judgment or order of restitution has been entered, the court shall enter a judgment for complete restitution and court ordered restitution pursuant to the provisions of Sections 77-38a-302 and 77-38a-401.



Amended by Chapter 131, 2011 General Session

