63M-7-504.   Crime Victim Reparations Board -- Members.
(1) (a)  A Crime Victim Reparations Board is created, consisting of seven
members appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate.
(b)  The membership of the board shall consist of:
(i)  a member of the bar of this state;
(ii)  a victim of criminally injurious conduct;
(iii)  a licensed physician;
(iv)  a representative of law enforcement;
(v)  a mental health care provider; and
(vi)  two other private citizens.
(c)  The governor may appoint a chair of the board who shall serve for a
period of time prescribed by the governor, not to exceed the length of the
chair's term.  The board may elect a vice chair to serve in the absence of the
chair.
(d)  The board may hear appeals from administrative decisions as provided in
rules adopted pursuant to Section 63M-7-515.
(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), as terms of current board
members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(c)  A member may be reappointed to one successive term.
(3) (a)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the
replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(b)  A member resigning from the board shall serve until the member's
successor is appointed and qualified.
(4) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(5)  The board shall meet at least once quarterly but may meet more frequently
as necessary.
