63M-7-521.   Award -- Payment methods -- Claims against the award.
(1)  The reparations officer may provide for the payment of an award in a lump
sum or in installments.  The part of an award equal to the amount of economic
loss accrued to the date of the award shall be paid in a lump sum.  An award
of allowable expense that would accrue after an initial award is made may not
be paid in a lump sum.  Except as provided in Subsection (2), the part of an
award that may not be paid in a lump sum shall be paid in installments.
(2)  At the request of the claimant, the reparations officer may convert
future economic loss installment payments, other than allowable expense, to a
lump sum payment, discounted to present value, but only upon a finding by the
officer that the award in a lump sum will promote the interests of the
claimant.
(3)  An award for future economic loss payable in installments may be made
only for a period for which the reparations officer can reasonably determine
future economic loss.  The reparations officer may reconsider and modify an
award for future economic loss payable in installments, upon the reparations
officer's finding that a material and substantial change of circumstances has
occurred.
(4)  An award is not subject to execution, attachment, or garnishment, except
that an award for allowable expense is not exempt from a claim of a creditor
to the extent that the creditor provided products, services, or
accommodations, the costs of which are included in the award.
(5)  An assignment or agreement to assign an award of reparations for loss
accruing in the future is unenforceable, except:
(a)  an assignment of an award of reparations for work loss to secure payment
of alimony, maintenance, or child support;
(b)  an assignment of an award of reparations for allowable expense to the
extent that the benefits are for the cost of products, services, or
accommodations necessitated by the injury or death on which the claim is based
and are provided or to be provided by the assignee; or
(c)  an assignment to repay a loan obtained to pay for the obligations or
expenses described in Subsection (5) (a) or (b).
