77-20-7.   Duration of liability on undertaking -- Notices to sureties -- Exoneration if charges not filed.

(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), the principal and the sureties on the written undertaking are liable on the undertaking during all proceedings and for all court appearances required of the defendant up to and including the surrender of the defendant for sentencing, irrespective of any contrary provision in the undertaking.  Any failure of the defendant to appear when required is a breach of the conditions of the undertaking or bail and subjects it to forfeiture, regardless of whether or not notice of appearance was given to the sureties.  Upon sentencing the bond shall be exonerated without motion.

(b)  If the sentence includes a commitment to a jail or prison, the bond shall be exonerated when the defendant appears at the appropriate jail or prison, unless the judge doesn't require the defendant to begin the commitment within seven days, in which case the bond is exonerated upon sentencing.

(c)  For purposes of this section, an order of the court accepting a plea in abeyance agreement and holding that plea in abeyance pursuant to Title 77, Chapter 2a, Pleas in Abeyance, is considered to be the same as a sentencing upon a guilty plea.

(d)  Any suspended or deferred sentencing is not the responsibility of the surety and the bond is exonerated without any motion, upon acceptance of the court and the defendant of a plea in abeyance, probation, fine payments, post sentencing reviews, or any other deferred sentencing reviews or any other deferred sentencing agreement.

(e)  If a surety issues a bond after the sentencing, the surety is liable on the undertaking during all proceedings and for all court appearances required of the defendant up to and including the defendant's appearance to commence serving the sentence imposed under Subsection (1).

(2)  If no information or indictment charging a person with an offense is filed in court within 120 days after the date of the bail undertaking or cash receipt, the court may relieve a person from conditions of release at the person's request, and the bond or undertaking is exonerated without further order of the court unless the prosecutor requests an extension of time before the end of the 120-day period by:

(a)  filing a notice for extension with the court; and

(b)  serving the notice for extension upon the sureties and the person or his attorney.

(3)  A court may extend bail and conditions of release for good cause.

(4)  Subsection (2) does not prohibit the filing of charges against a person at any time.

(5)  If the court does not set on a calendar any hearings on a case within 18 months of the last court docket activity on a case, the undertaking of bail is exonerated without motion.



Amended by Chapter 179, 2011 General Session

