26-40-110.   Managed care -- Contracting for services.
(1)  Program benefits provided to enrollees under the program, as described in
Section 26-40-106, shall be delivered in a managed care system if the
department determines that adequate services are available where the enrollee
lives or resides.
(2) (a)  The department shall use the following criteria to evaluate bids from
health plans:
(i)  ability to manage medical expenses, including mental health costs;
(ii)  proven ability to handle accident and health insurance;
(iii)  efficiency of claim paying procedures;
(iv)  proven ability for managed care and quality assurance;
(v)  provider contracting and discounts;
(vi)  pharmacy benefit management;
(vii)  an estimate of total charges for administering the pool;
(viii)  ability to administer the pool in a cost-efficient manner;
(ix)  the ability to provide adequate providers and services in the state; and
(x)  other criteria established by the department.
(b)  The dental benefits required by Section 26-40-106 may be bid out
separately from other program benefits.
(c)  Except for dental benefits, the department shall request bids for the
program's benefits in 2008.  The department shall request bids for the
program's dental benefits in 2009.  The department shall request bids for the
program's benefits at least once every five years thereafter.
(d)  The department's contract with health plans for the program's benefits
shall include risk sharing provisions in which the health plan must accept at
least 75% of the risk for any difference between the department's premium
payments per client and actual medical expenditures.
(3)  The executive director shall report to and seek recommendations from the
Health Advisory Council created in Section 26-1-7.5:
(a)  if the division receives less than two bids or proposals under Subsection
(1) that are acceptable to the division or responsive to the bid; and
(b)  before awarding a contract to a managed care system.
(4) (a)  The department shall award contracts to responsive bidders:
(i)  if the department determines that a bid is acceptable and meets the
criteria of Subsections (2)(a) and (d); and
(ii) (A)  the responsive bidder is able to offer the program access to two
different provider networks; or
(B)  the selection of two different responsive bidders will provide the
program with access to two different provider networks.
(b)  The department may contract with the Group Insurance Division within the
Utah State Retirement Office to provide services under Subsection (1) if:
(i)  the department is not able to contract with private carriers that under
Subsection (4)(a) are able to provide the program access to two different
provider networks;
(ii)  the executive director seeks the recommendation of the Health Advisory
Council under Subsection (3); and
(iii)  the executive director determines that either:
(A) responsive bids that could provide the program with access to two
different provider networks were not received by the department; or
(B) the bids were not acceptable to the department.
(c)  In accordance with Section 49-20-201, a contract awarded under Subsection
(4)(b) is not subject to the risk sharing required by Subsection (2)(d).
(5)  Title 63G, Chapter 6, Utah Procurement Code, shall apply to this section.
