49-23-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1) (a)  "Compensation" means the total amount of payments that are includable
in gross income received by a public safety service employee or a firefighter
service employee as base income for the regularly scheduled work period.  The
participating employer shall establish the regularly scheduled work period.
Base income shall be determined prior to the deduction of any amounts the
public safety service employee or firefighter service employee authorizes to
be deducted for salary deferral or other benefits authorized by federal law.
(b)  "Compensation" includes performance-based bonuses and cost-of-living
adjustments.
(c)  "Compensation" does not include:
(i)  overtime;
(ii)  sick pay incentives;
(iii)  retirement pay incentives;
(iv)  the monetary value of remuneration paid in kind, as in a residence, use
of equipment or uniform, travel, or similar payments;
(v)  a lump-sum payment or special payment covering accumulated leave; and
(vi)  all contributions made by a participating employer under this system or
under any other employee benefit system or plan maintained by a participating
employer for the benefit of a member or participant.
(d)  "Compensation" for purposes of this chapter may not exceed the amount
allowed under Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17).
(2)  "Corresponding Tier I system" means the system or plan that would have
covered the member if the member had initially entered employment before July
1, 2011.
(3)  "Final average salary" means the amount computed by averaging the highest
five years of annual compensation preceding retirement subject to Subsections
(3)(a), (b), (c), and (d).
(a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(b), the percentage increase in
annual compensation in any one of the years used may not exceed the previous
year's compensation by more than 10% plus a cost-of-living adjustment equal to
the decrease in the purchasing power of the dollar during the previous year,
as measured by a United States Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index
average as determined by the board.
(b)  In cases where the participating employer provides acceptable
documentation to the office, the limitation in Subsection (3)(a) may be
exceeded if:
(i)  the member has transferred from another agency; or
(ii)  the member has been promoted to a new position.
(c)  If the member retires more than six months from the date of termination
of employment, the member is considered to have been in service at the
member's last rate of pay from the date of the termination of employment to
the effective date of retirement for purposes of computing the member's final
average salary only.
(d)  If the member has less than five years of service credit in this system,
final average salary means the average annual compensation paid to the member
during the full period of service credit.
(4)  "Firefighter service" means employment normally requiring an average of
2,080 hours of regularly scheduled employment per year rendered by a member
who is a firefighter service employee trained in firefighter techniques and
assigned to a position of hazardous duty with a regularly constituted fire
department, but does not include secretarial staff or other similar employees.
(5)  "Firefighter service employee" means an employee of a participating
employer who provides firefighter service under this chapter.  An employee of
a regularly constituted fire department who does not perform firefighter
service is not a firefighter service employee.
(6)  "Participating employer" means an employer which meets the participation
requirements of:
(a)  Sections 49-14-201 and 49-14-202;
(b)  Sections 49-15-201 and 49-15-202;
(c)  Sections 49-16-201 and 49-16-202; or
(d)  Sections 49-23-201 and 49-23-202.
(7) (a)  "Public safety service" means employment normally requiring an
average of 2,080 hours of regularly scheduled employment per year rendered by
a member who is a:
(i)  law enforcement officer in accordance with Section 53-13-103;
(ii)  correctional officer in accordance with Section 53-13-104; and
(iii)  special function officer approved in accordance with Sections 49-15-201
and 53-13-105.
(b)  "Public safety service" also requires that in the course of employment
the employee's life or personal safety is at risk.
(8)  "Public safety service employee" means an employee of a participating
employer who performs public safety service under this chapter.
(9)  "System" means the New Public Safety and Firefighter Tier II Contributory
Retirement System created under this chapter.
(10) (a)  "Volunteer firefighter" means any individual that is not regularly
employed as a firefighter service employee, but who:
(i)  has been trained in firefighter techniques and skills;
(ii)  continues to receive regular firefighter training; and
(iii)  is on the rolls of a legally organized volunteer fire department which
provides ongoing training and serves a political subdivision of the state.
(b)  An individual that volunteers assistance but does not meet the
requirements of Subsection (10)(a) is not a volunteer firefighter for purposes
of this chapter.
(11)  "Years of service credit" means:
(a)  a period, consisting of 12 full months as determined by the board; or
(b)  a period determined by the board, whether consecutive or not, during
which a regular full-time employee performed services for a participating
employer, including any time the regular full-time employee was absent on a
paid leave of absence granted by a participating employer or was absent in the
service of the United States government on military duty as provided by this
chapter.
