49-23-401.   Contributions -- Rates.
(1)  Up to the amount allowed by federal law, the participating employer shall
contribute 12% of the participant's compensation to a defined contribution
plan.
(2) (a)  The participating employer shall contribute the 12% nonelective
contribution described in Subsection (1) to a defined contribution plan
qualified under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code which:
(i)  is sponsored by the board; and
(ii)  has been grandfathered under Section 1116 of the Federal Tax Reform Act
of 1986.
(b)  The member may make additional payments to:
(i)  the qualified 401(k) plan which receives the employer contribution
described in this Subsection (2); or
(ii)  at the member's option, another defined contribution plan established by
the participating employer.
(c)  In addition to the percent specified under Subsection (2)(a), the
participating employer shall pay the corresponding Tier I system amortization
rate of the employee's compensation to the office to be applied to the
employer's corresponding Tier I system liability.
(3) (a)  The total amount contributed by the participating employer under
Subsection (2)(a) vests to the member's benefit after four years of employment
from the date of employment.
(b)  The total amount contributed by the member under Subsection (2)(b) vests
to the member's benefit immediately and is nonforfeitable.
(4) (a)  Contributions made by a participating employer under Subsection
(2)(a) shall be invested in a default option selected by the board until the
member is vested in accordance with Subsection (3)(a).
(b)  A member may direct the investment of contributions made by a
participating employer under Subsection (2)(a) only after the contributions
have vested in accordance with Subsection (3)(a).
(c)  A member may direct the investment of contributions made by the member
under Subsection (3)(b).
(5)  No loans shall be available from contributions made by a participating
employer under Subsection (2)(a).
(6)  No hardship distributions shall be available from contributions made by a
participating employer under Subsection (2)(a).
(7) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(b), if a member terminates
employment with a participating employer prior to the vesting period described
in Subsection (3)(a), all contributions made by a participating employer on
behalf of the member under Subsection (2)(a) are subject to forfeiture.
(b)  If a member who terminates employment with a participating employer prior
to the vesting period described in Subsection (3)(a) subsequently enters
employment with the same or another participating employer within 10 years of
the termination date of the previous employment:
(i)  all contributions made by the previous participating employer on behalf
of the member shall be reinstated upon the member's completion of the vesting
period under Subsection (3)(a); and
(ii)  the length of time that the member worked with the previous employer
shall be included in determining whether the member has completed the vesting
period under Subsection (3)(a).
(c)  The board shall establish a forfeiture account and shall specify the uses
of the forfeiture account, which may include an offset against employer
contributions made under this section.
(8)  The board may request from any other qualified 401(k) plan under
Subsection (2) any relevant information pertaining to the maintenance of its
tax qualification under the Internal Revenue Code.
(9)  The board may take any action which in its judgment is necessary to
maintain the tax-qualified status of its 401(k) defined contribution plan
under federal law.
