70A-9a-305.   Law governing perfection and priority of security interests in
investment property.
(1)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsection (3), the following rules
apply:
(a)  While a security certificate is located in a jurisdiction, the local law
of that jurisdiction governs perfection, the effect of perfection or
nonperfection, and the priority of a security interest in the certificated
security represented thereby.
(b)  The local law of the issuer's jurisdiction as specified in Subsection
70A-8-109(4) governs perfection, the effect of perfection or nonperfection,
and the priority of a security interest in an uncertificated security.
(c)  The local law of the securities intermediary's jurisdiction as specified
in Subsection 70A-8-109(5) governs perfection, the effect of perfection or
nonperfection, and the priority of a security interest in a security
entitlement or securities account.
(d)  The local law of the commodity intermediary's jurisdiction governs
perfection, the effect of perfection or nonperfection, and the priority of a
security interest in a commodity contract or commodity account.
(2)  The following rules determine a commodity intermediary's jurisdiction for
purposes of this part:
(a)  If an agreement between the commodity intermediary and commodity customer
governing the commodity account expressly provides that a particular
jurisdiction is the commodity intermediary's jurisdiction for purposes of this
part, this chapter, or this title, that jurisdiction is the commodity
intermediary's jurisdiction.
(b)  If Subsection (2)(a) does not apply and an agreement between the
commodity intermediary and commodity customer governing the commodity account
expressly provides that the agreement is governed by the law of a particular
jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the commodity intermediary's jurisdiction.
(c)  If neither Subsection (2)(a) nor Subsection (2)(b) applies and an
agreement between the commodity intermediary and commodity customer governing
the commodity account expressly provides that the commodity account is
maintained at an office in a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the
commodity intermediary's jurisdiction.
(d)  If none of the Subsections (2)(a) through (c) applies, the commodity
intermediary's jurisdiction is the jurisdiction in which the office identified
in an account statement as the office serving the commodity customer's account
is located.
(e)  If none of the Subsections (2)(a) through (d) applies, the commodity
intermediary's jurisdiction is the jurisdiction in which the chief executive
office of the commodity intermediary is located.
(3) The local law of the jurisdiction in which the debtor is located governs:
(a)  perfection of a security interest in investment property by filing;
(b)  automatic perfection of a security interest in investment property
created by a broker or securities intermediary; and
(c)  automatic perfection of a security interest in a commodity contract or
commodity account created by a commodity intermediary.
