70A-9a-322.   Priorities among conflicting security interests in and
agricultural liens on same collateral.
(1)  Except as otherwise provided in this section, priority among conflicting
security interests and agricultural liens in the same collateral is determined
according to the following rules:
(a)  Conflicting perfected security interests and agricultural liens rank
according to priority in time of filing or perfection.  Priority dates from
the earlier of the time a filing covering the collateral is first made or the
security interest or agricultural lien is first perfected, if there is no
period thereafter when there is neither filing nor perfection.
(b)  A perfected security interest or agricultural lien has priority over a
conflicting unperfected security interest or agricultural lien.
(c)  The first security interest or agricultural lien to attach or become
effective has priority if conflicting security interests and agricultural
liens are unperfected.
(2)  For the purposes of Subsection (1)(a):
(a)  the time of filing or perfection as to a security interest in collateral
is also the time of filing or perfection as to a security interest in
proceeds; and
(b)  the time of filing or perfection as to a security interest in collateral
supported by a supporting obligation is also the time of filing or perfection
as to a security interest in the supporting obligation.
(3)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsection (6), a security interest in
collateral which qualifies for priority over a conflicting security interest
under Section 70A-9a-327, 70A-9a-328, 70A-9a-329, 70A-9a-330, or 70A-9a-331
also has priority over a conflicting security interest in:
(a)  any supporting obligation for the collateral; and
(b)  proceeds of the collateral if:
(i)  the security interest in proceeds is perfected;
(ii)  the proceeds are cash proceeds or of the same type as the collateral;
and
(iii)  in the case of proceeds that are proceeds of proceeds, all intervening
proceeds are cash proceeds, proceeds of the same type as the collateral, or an
account relating to the collateral.
(4)  Subject to Subsection (5) and except as otherwise provided in Subsection
(6), if a security interest in chattel paper, deposit accounts, negotiable
documents, instruments, investment property, or letter-of-credit rights is
perfected by a method other than filing, conflicting perfected security
interests in proceeds of the collateral rank according to priority in time of
filing.
(5)  Subsection (4) applies only if the proceeds of the collateral are not
cash proceeds, chattel paper, negotiable documents, instruments, investment
property, or letter-of-credit rights.
(6)  Subsections (1) through (5) are subject to:
(a)  Subsection (7) and the other provisions of this part;
(b)  Section 70A-4-210 with respect to a security interest of a collecting
bank;
(c)  Section 70A-5-118 with respect to a security interest of an issuer or
nominated person; and
(d)  Section 70A-9a-110 with respect to a security interest arising under
Chapter 2 or 2a.
(7)  A perfected agricultural lien on collateral has priority over a
conflicting security interest in or agricultural lien on the same collateral
if the statute creating the agricultural lien so provides.
