70A-9a-705.    Effectiveness of action taken before effective date.
(1)  If action, other than the filing of a financing statement, is taken
before this act takes effect and the action would have resulted in priority of
a security interest over the rights of a person that becomes a lien creditor
had the security interest become enforceable before this act takes effect, the
action is effective to perfect a security interest that attaches under this
act within one year after this act takes effect.  An attached security
interest becomes unperfected one year after this act takes effect unless the
security interest becomes a perfected security interest under this act before
the expiration of that period.
(2)  The filing of a financing statement before this act takes effect is
effective to perfect a security interest to the extent the filing would
satisfy the applicable requirements for perfection under this act.
(3)  This act does not render ineffective an effective financing statement
that, before this act takes effect, is filed and satisfies the applicable
requirements for perfection under the law of the jurisdiction governing
perfection as provided in former Section 70A-9-103.  However, except as
otherwise provided in Subsections (4) and (5) and Section 70A-9a-706, the
financing statement ceases to be effective at the earlier of:
(a)  the time the financing statement would have ceased to be effective under
the law of the jurisdiction in which it is filed; or
(b)  June 30, 2006.
(4)  The filing of a continuation statement after this act takes effect does
not continue the effectiveness of the financing statement filed before this
act takes effect.  However, upon the timely filing of a continuation statement
after this act takes effect and in accordance with the law of the jurisdiction
governing perfection as provided in Part 3, the effectiveness of a financing
statement filed in the same office in that jurisdiction before this act takes
effect continues for the period provided by the law of that jurisdiction.
(5) Subsection (3)(b) applies to a financing statement that, before this act
takes effect, is filed against a transmitting utility and satisfies the
applicable requirements for perfection under the law of the jurisdiction
governing perfection as provided in former Section 70A-9-103 only to the
extent that Part 3 provides that the law of a jurisdiction other than the
jurisdiction in which the financing statement is filed governs perfection of a
security interest in collateral covered by the financing statement.
(6)  A financing statement that includes a financing statement filed before
this act takes effect and a continuation statement filed after this act takes
effect is effective only to the extent that it satisfies the requirements of
Part 5 for an initial financing statement.
