68-4-5.   Creation -- Members -- Terms -- General counsel -- Vacancies --
Per diem and expenses.
(1)  The "Utah Commission on Uniform State Laws" consists of the following
members of the Utah Bar in good standing:
(a) (i)  Two members shall serve in the Legislature at the time of the
appointment and during the legislator's service on the commission.  The
governor shall appoint one member from the Senate and one member from the
House of Representatives.  The service of the legislative members of the
commission shall be a four-year term as provided in Subsection (1)(a)(iii), or
when the term of office as a legislator ends, whichever occurs first.
(ii)  Two members of the Utah Bar shall be appointed by the governor.
(iii)  Except as required by Subsection (1)(a)(iv), as terms of current
commission members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or
reappointed member to a four-year term with the consent of the Senate.
(iv)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (1)(a)(ii), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of commission members are staggered so that
approximately half of the commission is appointed every two years.
(v)  Each commissioner shall serve until his successor is appointed.
(b)  In addition to the members appointed under Subsection (1)(a), the
Legislature's general counsel shall serve as a commissioner during the
appointment as general counsel.  The Legislature's general counsel may appoint
a designee from the Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel to
serve in the place of the Legislature's general counsel.  The designee shall
serve at the will of the Legislature's general counsel.
(c)  Any commissioner who has been elected as a life member of the National
Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws because of long service as a
commissioner with the National Conference shall continue as a commissioner as
provided in Subsection 68-4-6(3).
(2)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership as outlined in Section 68-4-6,
the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(3) (a) (i)  A member who is not a government employee may not receive
compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem
and expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at
the rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  A member may decline to receive per diem and expenses for the member's
service.
(b) (i)  A state government officer and employee member who does not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from the agency the member represents for the
member's service, may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the
performance of the member's official duties for the commission at the rates
established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  A state government officer and employee member may decline to receive
per diem and expenses for the member's service.
(c)  A legislative member shall receive compensation and expenses as provided
by law and legislative rule.
