63C-9-702.   Art Placement Subcommittee to the State Capitol Preservation
Board -- Created -- Membership -- Operations.
(1) (a)  There is created an Art Placement Subcommittee to the State Capitol
Preservation Board composed of 11 members appointed as provided in this
Subsection (1).
(b) (i)  The governor shall appoint:
(A)  an architect, from a list of three architects submitted by the American
Institute of Architects;
(B)  an artist, from a list of three artists submitted by the Utah Arts
Council Board of Directors;
(C)  an historian, from a list of three historians submitted by the Board of
State History; and
(D)  a citizen to represent the public at large who is not a member of the
State Capitol Preservation Board.
(ii)  The governor, as chair of the board, with the concurrence of the board,
shall appoint a member of the board as a voting member of the subcommittee.
(c)  The president of the Senate shall appoint three members, two from the
majority party and one from the minority party.
(d)  The speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint three members,
two from the majority party and one from the minority party.
(2) (a) (i) (A)  Subcommittee members appointed by the governor shall serve
four-year terms and may serve up to two consecutive terms.
(B)  The board member appointed by the governor under Subsection (1)(b)(ii)
shall serve a two-year term, and may be reappointed.
(ii)  Subcommittee members appointed by the president of the Senate and the
speaker of the House of Representatives shall serve two-year terms and may be
reappointed.
(b)  In appointing members to the first subcommittee, the governor shall
designate two members to serve a two-year term and two members to serve four-
year terms.
(3) (a)  Each subcommittee member shall hold office until his successor has
been appointed and qualified.
(b)  If a vacancy occurs in the subcommittee because of death, resignation, or
otherwise, the appointing authority shall appoint a successor, who shall hold
office for the unexpired term.
(c)  Six voting members of the subcommittee are a quorum for the purpose of
organizing and conducting the business of the subcommittee.
(d)  The vote of a majority of members voting when a quorum is present is
necessary for the subcommittee to take action.
(4) (a)  At the initial meeting of the subcommittee, the subcommittee shall
select one of its number to serve as chair of the subcommittee.
(b)  The executive director of the board shall assist the subcommittee in
their duties and shall provide staff services to the subcommittee.
(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(6)  The subcommittee shall meet at least quarterly.
