58-71-601.   Mentally incompetent or incapacitated naturopathic physician.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Incapacitated person" has the same definition as in Section 75-1-201.
(b)  "Mentally ill" has the same definition as in Section 62A-15-602.
(2)  If a court of competent jurisdiction determines a naturopathic physician
is an incapacitated person or that the physician is mentally ill and unable to
safely engage in the practice of medicine, the director shall immediately
suspend the license of the naturopathic physician upon the entry of the
judgment of the court, without further proceedings under Title 63G, Chapter 4,
Administrative Procedures Act, regardless of whether an appeal from the
court's ruling is pending.  The director shall promptly notify the
naturopathic physician, in writing, of the suspension.
(3) (a)  If the division and a majority of the board find reasonable cause to
believe a naturopathic physician, who is not determined judicially to be an
incapacitated person or to be mentally ill, is incapable of practicing
medicine with reasonable skill regarding the safety of patients, because of
illness, excessive use of drugs or alcohol, or as a result of any mental or
physical condition, the board shall recommend that the director file a
petition with the division, and cause the petition to be served upon the
naturopathic physician with a notice of hearing on the sole issue of the
capacity of the naturopathic physician to competently and safely engage in the
practice of medicine.
(b)  The hearing shall be conducted under Section 58-1-109, and Title 63G,
Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, except as provided in Subsection
(4).
(4) (a)  Every naturopathic physician who accepts the privilege of being
licensed under this chapter gives consent to:
(i)  submitting at the physician's own expense to an immediate mental or
physical examination when directed in writing by the division and a majority
of the board to do so; and
(ii)  the admissibility of the reports of the examining physician's testimony
or examination, and waives all objections on the ground the reports constitute
a privileged communication.
(b)  The examination may be ordered by the division, with the consent of a
majority of the board, only upon a finding of reasonable cause to believe:
(i)  the naturopathic physician is mentally ill or incapacitated or otherwise
unable to practice medicine with reasonable skill and safety; and
(ii)  immediate action by the division and the board is necessary to prevent
harm to the naturopathic physician's patients or the general public.
(c) (i)  Failure of a naturopathic physician to submit to the examination
ordered under this section is a ground for the division's immediate suspension
of the naturopathic physician's license by written order of the director.
(ii)  The division may enter the order of suspension without further
compliance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, unless
the division finds the failure to submit to the examination ordered under this
section was due to circumstances beyond the control of the naturopathic
physician and was not related directly to the illness or incapacity of the
naturopathic physician.
(5) (a)  A naturopathic physician whose license is suspended under Subsection
(2) or (3) has the right to a hearing to appeal the suspension within 10 days
after the license is suspended.
(b)  The hearing held under this subsection shall be conducted in accordance
with Sections 58-1-108 and 58-1-109 for the sole purpose of determining if
sufficient basis exists for the continuance of the order of suspension in
order to prevent harm to the naturopathic physician's patients or the general
public.
(6)  A naturopathic physician whose license is revoked, suspended, or in any
way restricted under this section may request the division and the board to
consider, at reasonable intervals, evidence presented by the naturopathic
physician, under procedures established by division rule, regarding any change
in the naturopathic physician's condition, to determine whether:
(a)  the physician is or is not able to safely and competently engage in the
practice of medicine; and
(b)  the physician is qualified to have the physician's license to practice
under this chapter restored completely or in part.
