58-31b-401.   Grounds for denial of licensure or certification and
disciplinary proceedings.
(1)  Grounds for refusal to issue a license to an applicant, for refusal to
renew the license of a licensee, to revoke, suspend, restrict, or place on
probation the license of a licensee, to issue a public or private reprimand to
a licensee, and to issue cease and desist orders shall be in accordance with
Section 58-1-401.
(2)  If a court of competent jurisdiction determines a nurse is an
incapacitated person as defined in Section 75-1-201 or that the nurse is
mentally ill as defined in Section 62A-15-602, and unable to safely engage in
the practice of nursing, the director shall immediately suspend the license of
the nurse upon the entry of the judgment of the court, without further
proceedings under Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act,
regardless of whether an appeal from the court's ruling is pending.  The
director shall promptly notify the nurse in writing of the suspension.
(3) (a)  If the division and the majority of the board find reasonable cause
to believe a nurse who is not determined judicially to be an incapacitated
person or to be mentally ill, is incapable of practicing nursing with
reasonable skill regarding the safety of patients, because of illness,
excessive use of drugs or alcohol, or as a result of any mental or physical
condition, the board shall recommend that the director file a petition with
the division, and cause the petition to be served upon the nurse with a notice
of hearing on the sole issue of the capacity of the nurse to competently,
safely engage in the practice of nursing.
(b)  The hearing shall be conducted under Section 58-1-109 and Title 63G,
Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, except as provided in Subsection
(4).
(4) (a)  Every nurse who accepts the privilege of being licensed under this
chapter gives consent to:
(i)  submitting to an immediate mental or physical examination, at the nurse's
expense and by a division-approved practitioner selected by the nurse when
directed in writing by the division and a majority of the board to do so; and
(ii)  the admissibility of the reports of the examining practitioner's
testimony or examination, and waives all objections on the ground the reports
constitute a privileged communication.
(b)  The examination may be ordered by the division, with the consent of a
majority of the board, only upon a finding of reasonable cause to believe:
(i)  the nurse is mentally ill or incapacitated or otherwise unable to
practice nursing with reasonable skill and safety; and
(ii)  immediate action by the division and the board is necessary to prevent
harm to the nurse's patients or the general public.
(c) (i)  Failure of a nurse to submit to the examination ordered under this
section is a ground for the division's immediate suspension of the nurse's
license by written order of the director.
(ii)  The division may enter the order of suspension without further
compliance with Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, unless
the division finds the failure to submit to the examination ordered under this
section was due to circumstances beyond the control of the nurse and was not
related directly to the illness or incapacity of the nurse.
(5) (a)  A nurse whose license is suspended under Subsection (2), (3), or
(4)(c) has the right to a hearing to appeal the suspension within 10 days
after the license is suspended.
(b)  The hearing held under this Subsection (5) shall be conducted in
accordance with Sections 58-1-108 and 58-1-109 for the sole purpose of
determining if sufficient basis exists for the continuance of the order of
suspension in order to prevent harm to the nurse's patients or the general
public.
(6)  A nurse whose license is revoked, suspended, or in any way restricted
under this section may request the division and the board to consider, at
reasonable intervals, evidence presented by the nurse, under procedures
established by division rule, regarding any change in the nurse's condition,
to determine whether:
(a) the nurse is or is not able to safely and competently engage in the
practice of nursing; and
(b) the nurse is qualified to have the nurse's license to practice under this
chapter restored completely or in part.
(7)  Nothing in Section 63G-2-206 may be construed as limiting the authority
of the division to report current significant investigative information to the
coordinated licensure information system for transmission to party states as
required of the division by Article VII of the Nurse Licensure Compact in
Section 58-31c-102.
(8)  For purposes of this section:
(a)  "licensed" or "license" includes "certified" or "certification" under
this chapter; and
(b)  any terms or conditions applied to the word "nurse" in this section also
apply to a medication aide certified.
