58-31b-503.   Penalties and administrative actions for unlawful conduct and
unprofessional conduct.
(1)  Any person who violates the unlawful conduct provision specifically
defined in Subsection 58-1-501(1)(a) is guilty of a third degree felony.
(2)  Any person who violates any of the unlawful conduct provisions
specifically defined in Subsections 58-1-501(1)(b) through (f) and
58-31b-501(1)(d) is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.
(3)  Any person who violates any of the unlawful conduct provisions
specifically defined in this chapter and not set forth in Subsection (1) or
(2) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
(4) (a)  Subject to Subsection (6) and in accordance with Section 58-31b-401,
for acts of unprofessional or unlawful conduct, the division may:
(i)  assess administrative penalties; and
(ii)  take any other appropriate administrative action.
(b)  An administrative penalty imposed pursuant to this section shall be
deposited in the "Nurse Education and Enforcement Fund" as provided in Section
58-31b-103.
(5)  If a licensee has been convicted of violating Section 58-31b-501 prior to
an administrative finding of a violation of the same section, the licensee may
not be assessed an administrative fine under this chapter for the same offense
for which the conviction was obtained.
(6) (a)  If upon inspection or investigation, the division concludes that a
person has violated the provisions of Sections 58-31b-401, 58-31b-501, or
58-31b-502, Chapter 1, Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing
Act, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or any rule or order issued
with respect to these provisions, and that disciplinary action is appropriate,
the director or the director's designee from within the division shall:
(i)  promptly issue a citation to the person according to this chapter and any
pertinent administrative rules;
(ii)  attempt to negotiate a stipulated settlement; or
(iii)  notify the person to appear before an adjudicative proceeding conducted
under Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(b)  Any person who is in violation of a provision described in Subsection
(6)(a), as evidenced by an uncontested citation, a stipulated settlement, or a
finding of violation in an adjudicative proceeding may be assessed a fine:
(i)  pursuant to this Subsection (6) of up to $10,000 per single violation or
up to $2,000 per day of ongoing violation, whichever is greater, in accordance
with a fine schedule established by rule; and
(ii)  in addition to or in lieu of the fine imposed under Subsection
(6)(b)(i), be ordered to cease and desist from violating a provision of
Sections 58-31b-501 and 58-31b-502, Chapter 1, Division of Occupational and
Professional Licensing Act, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or any
rule or order issued with respect to those provisions.
(c)  Except for an administrative fine and a cease and desist order, the
licensure sanctions cited in Section 58-31b-401 may not be assessed through a
citation.
(d)  Each citation issued under this section shall:
(i)  be in writing; and
(ii)  clearly describe or explain:
(A)  the nature of the violation, including a reference to the provision of
the chapter, rule, or order alleged to have been violated;
(B)  that the recipient must notify the division in writing within 20 calendar
days of service of the citation in order to contest the citation at a hearing
conducted under Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act; and
(C)  the consequences of failure to timely contest the citation or to make
payment of any fines assessed by the citation within the time specified in the
citation; and
(iii)  be served upon any person upon whom a summons may be served:
(A)  in accordance with the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure;
(B)  personally or upon the person's agent by a division investigator or by
any person specially designated by the director; or
(C)  by mail.
(e)  If within 20 calendar days from the service of a citation, the person to
whom the citation was issued fails to request a hearing to contest the
citation, the citation becomes the final order of the division and is not
subject to further agency review.  The period to contest the citation may be
extended by the division for cause.
(f)  The division may refuse to issue or renew, suspend, revoke, or place on
probation the license of a licensee who fails to comply with the citation
after it becomes final.
(g)  The failure of an applicant for licensure to comply with a citation after
it becomes final is a ground for denial of license.
(h)  No citation may be issued under this section after the expiration of six
months following the occurrence of any violation.
