71-8-4.   Veterans' Advisory Council -- Membership -- Duties and responsibilities -- Per diem and travel expenses.

(1)  There is created a Veterans' Advisory Council whose purpose is to advise the executive director of the Department of Veterans' and Military Affairs on issues relating to veterans.

(2)  The council shall consist of the following 14 members:

(a)  11 voting members to serve four-year terms:

(i)  seven veterans at large appointed by the governor;

(ii)  the commander or the commander's designee, whose terms shall last for as long as they hold that office, from each of the following organizations:

(A)  Veterans of Foreign Wars;

(B)  American Legion; and

(C)  Disabled American Veterans; and

(iii)  a representative from the Office of the Governor; and

(b)  three nonvoting members:

(i)  the executive director of the Department of Veterans' and Military Affairs;

(ii)  the director of the VA Health Care System or his designee; and

(iii)  the director of the VA Benefits Administration Regional Office in Salt Lake City, or his designee.

(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current council members expire, the governor shall appoint each new or reappointed member to a four-year term commencing on July 1.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that approximately half of the members appointed by the governor are appointed every two years.

(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the governor shall appoint a replacement for the unexpired term within 60 days of receiving notice.

(5)  Members appointed by the governor may not serve more than three consecutive terms.

(6) (a)  Any veterans' group or veteran may provide the executive director with a list of recommendations for members on the council.

(b)  The executive director shall provide the governor with the list of recommendations for members to be appointed to the council.

(c)  The governor shall make final appointments to the council by June 30 of any year in which appointments are to be made under this chapter.

(7)  The council shall elect a chair and vice chair from among the council members every two years.  The chair and vice chair shall be veterans.

(8) (a)  The council shall meet at least once every quarter.

(b)  The executive director of the Department of Veterans' and Military Affairs may convene additional meetings, as necessary.

(9)  The department shall provide staff to the council.

(10)  Six voting members are a quorum for the transaction of business.

(11)  The council shall:

(a)  solicit input concerning veterans issues from veterans' groups throughout the state;

(b)  report issues received to the executive director of the Department of Veterans' and Military Affairs and make recommendations concerning them;

(c)  keep abreast of federal developments that affect veterans locally and advise the executive director of them; and

(d)  approve, by a majority vote, the use of money generated from veterans' license plates under Section 41-1a-422 for veterans' programs.

(12)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.



Amended by Chapter 214, 2013 General Session

