77-3a-101.   Civil stalking injunction -- Petition -- Ex parte injunction.
(1)  As used in this chapter, "stalking" means the crime of stalking as
defined in Section 76-5-106.5.  Stalking injunctions may not be obtained
against law enforcement officers, governmental investigators, or licensed
private investigators, acting in their official capacity.
(2)  Any person who believes that he or she is the victim of stalking may file
a verified written petition for a civil stalking injunction against the
alleged stalker with the district court in the district in which the
petitioner or respondent resides or in which any of the events occurred.  A
minor with his or her parent or guardian may file a petition on his or her own
behalf, or a parent, guardian, or custodian may file a petition on the minor's
behalf.
(3)  The Administrative Office of the Courts shall develop and adopt uniform
forms for petitions, ex parte civil stalking injunctions, civil stalking
injunctions, service and any other necessary forms in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter on or before July 1, 2001.  The office shall
provide the forms to the clerk of each district court.
(a)  All petitions, injunctions, ex parte injunctions, and any other necessary
forms shall be issued in the form adopted by the Administrative Office of the
Courts.
(b)  The offices of the court clerk shall provide the forms to persons seeking
to proceed under this chapter.
(4)  The petition for a civil stalking injunction shall include:
(a)  the name of the petitioner; however, the petitioner's address shall be
disclosed to the court for purposes of service, but, on request of the
petitioner, the address may not be listed on the petition, and shall be
protected and maintained in a separate document or automated database, not
subject to release, disclosure, or any form of public access except as ordered
by the court for good cause shown;
(b)  the name and address, if known, of the respondent;
(c)  specific events and dates of the actions constituting the alleged
stalking;
(d)  if there is a prior court order concerning the same conduct, the name of
the court in which the order was rendered; and
(e)  corroborating evidence of stalking, which may be in the form of a police
report, affidavit, record, statement, item, letter, or any other evidence
which tends to prove the allegation of stalking.
(5)  If the court determines that there is reason to believe that an offense
of stalking has occurred, an ex parte civil stalking injunction may be issued
by the court that includes any of the following:
(a)  respondent may be enjoined from committing stalking;
(b)  respondent may be restrained from coming near the residence, place of
employment, or school of the other party or specifically designated locations
or persons;
(c)  respondent may be restrained from contacting, directly or indirectly, the
other party, including personal, written or telephone contact with the other
party, the other party's employers, employees, fellow workers or others with
whom communication would be likely to cause annoyance or alarm to the other
party; or
(d)  any other relief necessary or convenient for the protection of the
petitioner and other specifically designated persons under the circumstances.
(6)  Within 10 days of service of the ex parte civil stalking injunction, the
respondent is entitled to request, in writing, an evidentiary hearing on the
civil stalking injunction.
(a)  A hearing requested by the respondent shall be held within 10 days from
the date the request is filed with the court unless the court finds compelling
reasons to continue the hearing.  The hearing shall then be held at the
earliest possible time.  The burden is on the petitioner to show by a
preponderance of the evidence that stalking of the petitioner by the
respondent has occurred.
(b)  An ex parte civil stalking injunction issued under this section shall
state on its face:
(i)  that the respondent is entitled to a hearing, upon written request within
10 days of the service of the order;
(ii)  the name and address of the district court where the request may be
filed;
(iii)  that if the respondent fails to request a hearing within 10 days of
service, the ex parte civil stalking injunction is automatically modified to a
civil stalking injunction without further notice to the respondent and that
the civil stalking injunction expires three years after service of the ex
parte civil stalking injunction; and
(iv)  that if the respondent requests, in writing, a hearing after the ten-day
period after service, the court shall set a hearing within a reasonable time
from the date requested.
(7)  At the hearing, the court may modify, revoke, or continue the injunction.
The burden is on the petitioner to show by a preponderance of the evidence
that stalking of the petitioner by the respondent has occurred.
(8)  The ex parte civil stalking injunction and civil stalking injunction
shall include the following statement: "Attention.  This is an official court
order.  If you disobey this order, the court may find you in contempt.  You
may also be arrested and prosecuted for the crime of stalking and any other
crime you may have committed in disobeying this order."
(9)  The ex parte civil stalking injunction shall be served on the respondent
within 90 days from the date it is signed.  An ex parte civil stalking
injunction is effective upon service.  If no hearing is requested in writing
by the respondent within 10 days of service of the ex parte civil stalking
injunction, the ex parte civil stalking injunction automatically becomes a
civil stalking injunction without further notice to the respondent and expires
three years from the date of service of the ex parte civil stalking
injunction.
(10)  If the respondent requests a hearing after the ten-day period after
service, the court shall set a hearing within a reasonable time from the date
requested.  At the hearing, the burden is on the respondent to show good cause
why the civil stalking injunction should be dissolved or modified.
(11)  Within 24 hours after the affidavit or acceptance of service has been
returned, excluding weekends and holidays, the clerk of the court from which
the ex parte civil stalking injunction was issued shall enter a copy of the ex
parte civil stalking injunction and proof of service or acceptance of service
in the statewide network for warrants or a similar system.
(a)  The effectiveness of an ex parte civil stalking injunction or civil
stalking injunction shall not depend upon its entry in the statewide system
and, for enforcement purposes, a certified copy of an ex parte civil stalking
injunction or civil stalking injunction is presumed to be a valid existing
order of the court for a period of three years from the date of service of the
ex parte civil stalking injunction on the respondent.
(b)  Any changes or modifications of the ex parte civil stalking injunction
are effective upon service on the respondent.  The original ex parte civil
stalking injunction continues in effect until service of the changed or
modified civil stalking injunction on the respondent.
(12)  Within 24 hours after the affidavit or acceptance of service has been
returned, excluding weekends and holidays, the clerk of the court shall enter
a copy of the changed or modified civil stalking injunction and proof of
service or acceptance of service in the statewide network for warrants or a
similar system.
(13)  The ex parte civil stalking injunction or civil stalking injunction may
be dissolved at any time upon application of the petitioner to the court which
granted it.
(14)  The court clerk shall provide, without charge, to the petitioner one
certified copy of the injunction issued by the court and one certified copy of
the proof of service of the injunction on the respondent.  Charges may be
imposed by the clerk's office for any additional copies, certified or not
certified in accordance with Rule 4-202.08 of the Code of Judicial
Administration.
(15)  The remedies provided in this chapter for enforcement of the orders of
the court are in addition to any other civil and criminal remedies available.
The district court shall hear and decide all matters arising pursuant to this
section.
(16)  After a hearing with notice to the affected party, the court may enter
an order requiring any party to pay the costs of the action, including
reasonable attorney fees.
(17)  This chapter does not apply to protective orders or ex parte protective
orders issued pursuant to Title 78B, Chapter 7, Part 1, Cohabitant Abuse Act,
or to preliminary injunctions issued pursuant to an action for dissolution of
marriage or legal separation.
