17-34-1.   Counties may provide municipal services -- Limitation -- First class counties to provide certain services -- Counties allowed to provide certain services in recreational areas.

(1)  For purposes of this chapter, except as otherwise provided in Subsection (3):

(a)  "Greater than class C radioactive waste" has the same meaning as in Section 19-3-303.

(b)  "High-level nuclear waste" has the same meaning as in Section 19-3-303.

(c)  "Municipal-type services" means:

(i)  fire protection service;

(ii)  waste and garbage collection and disposal;

(iii)  planning and zoning;

(iv)  street lighting;

(v)  in a county of the first class:

(A)  advanced life support and paramedic services; and

(B)  detective investigative services; and

(vi)  all other services and functions that are required by law to be budgeted, appropriated, and accounted for from a municipal services fund or a municipal capital projects fund as defined under Chapter 36, Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Counties.

(d)  "Placement" has the same meaning as in Section 19-3-303.

(e)  "Storage facility" has the same meaning as in Section 19-3-303.

(f)  "Transfer facility" has the same meaning as in Section 19-3-303.

(2)  A county may:

(a)  provide municipal-type services to areas of the county outside the limits of cities and towns without providing the same services to cities or towns;

(b)  fund those services by:

(i)  levying a tax on taxable property in the county outside the limits of cities and towns; or

(ii)  charging a service charge or fee to persons benefitting from the municipal-type services.

(3)  A county may not:

(a)  provide, contract to provide, or agree in any manner to provide municipal-type services, as these services are defined in Section 19-3-303, to any area under consideration for a storage facility or transfer facility for the placement of high-level nuclear waste, or greater than class C radioactive waste; or

(b)  seek to fund services for these facilities by:

(i)  levying a tax; or

(ii)  charging a service charge or fee to persons benefitting from the municipal-type services.

(4)  Each county of the first class shall provide to the area of the county outside the limits of cities and towns:

(a)  advanced life support and paramedic services; and

(b)  detective investigative services.

(5) (a)  A county may provide fire, paramedic, and police protection services in any area of the county outside the limits of cities and towns that is designated as a recreational area in accordance with the provisions of this Subsection (5).

(b)  A county legislative body may designate any area of the county outside the limits of cities and towns as a recreational area if:

(i)  the area has fewer than 1,500 residents and is primarily used for recreational purposes, including canyons, ski resorts, wilderness areas, lakes and reservoirs, campgrounds, or picnic areas; and

(ii)  the county legislative body makes a finding that the recreational area is used by residents of the county who live both inside and outside the limits of cities and towns.

(c)  Fire, paramedic, and police protection services needed to primarily serve those involved in the recreation activities in areas designated as recreational areas by the county legislative body in accordance with Subsection (5)(b) may be funded from the county general fund.

