34A-7-103.   Inspection requirements -- Inspection certificate -- Standards of inspectors.

(1)  On and after July 1, 1967, each boiler used or proposed to be used within this state, except boilers exempt under Section 34A-7-101, shall be thoroughly inspected:

(a)  internally and externally;

(b)  annually, except as otherwise provided by this part;

(c)  while not under pressure;

(d)  by:

(i)  the Division of Boiler and Elevator Safety; or

(ii)  an inspector approved and deputized by the Division of Boiler and Elevator Safety; and

(e)  as to its safety of construction, installation, condition, and operation.

(2)  If at any time a hydrostatic test shall be considered necessary by the Division of Boiler and Elevator Safety to determine the safety of a boiler, the hydrostatic test shall be made at the direction of the Division of Boiler and Elevator Safety allowing a reasonable time for owner or user to comply.

(3) (a)  Not more than 14 months shall elapse between internal inspections of a boiler, except not more than 30 months between internal inspections of a large power boiler.

(b)  For purposes of this Subsection (3) a "large power boiler" is a boiler operated and monitored continuously with adequate maintenance, combustion, and water controls.

(c)  The Division of Boiler and Elevator Safety may extend the inspection interval in writing when proper evidence has been presented as to method of operation, performance records, and water treatment.

(4) (a)  All low pressure boilers shall be internally and externally inspected at least biennially where construction will permit.

(b)  For purposes of this Subsection (4), a "low pressure boiler" is a boiler with steam 15 pounds per square inch pressure and water 160 pounds per square inch pressure, maximum.

(5) (a)  A boiler inspected by a deputized inspector employed by an insurance company, if made within the time limits provided in this section, shall be considered to meet the provisions of this part if:

(i)  a report of the inspection is filed with the Division of Boiler and Elevator Safety within 30 days after the inspection; and

(ii)  the boiler is certified by the inspector employed by an insurance company as being safe to operate for the purpose for which it is being used.

(b)  The inspection and filing of the report with the Division of Boiler and Elevator Safety shall exempt the boiler or boilers from inspection fees provided for in this part.

(6)  If a boiler shall, upon inspection, be found to be suitable and to conform to the rules of the commission, the inspector shall issue to the owner or user an inspection certificate.

(7) (a)  The Division of Boiler and Elevator Safety may at any time suspend an inspection certificate when in its opinion the boiler for which it was issued may not continue to be operated without menace to the public safety or when the boiler is found not to comply with the safety rules of the commission.

(b)  The suspension of an inspection certificate shall continue in effect until the boiler shall have been made to conform to the safety rules of the commission and a new certificate is issued.

(8)  An inspector deputized or employed by the Division of Boiler and Elevator Safety under this part shall meet at all times nationally recognized standards of qualifications of fitness and competence for such work.



Amended by Chapter 155, 2006 General Session

