17-41-403.   Nuisances.
(1)  Each political subdivision shall ensure that any of its laws or
ordinances that define or prohibit a public nuisance exclude from the
definition or prohibition:
(a)  for an agriculture protection area, any agricultural activity or
operation within an agriculture protection area conducted using sound
agricultural practices unless that activity or operation bears a direct
relationship to public health or safety; or
(b)  for an industrial protection area, any industrial use of the land within
the industrial protection area that is consistent with sound practices
applicable to the industrial use, unless that use bears a direct relationship
to public health or safety.
(2)  In a civil action for nuisance or a criminal action for public nuisance
under Section 76-10-803, it is a complete defense if the action involves
agricultural activities and those agricultural activities were:
(a)  conducted within an agriculture protection area; and
(b)  not in violation of any federal, state, or local law or regulation
relating to the alleged nuisance or were conducted according to sound
agricultural practices.
(3) (a)  A vested mining use undertaken in conformity with applicable federal
and state law and regulations is presumed to be operating within sound mining
practices.
(b)  A vested mining use that is consistent with sound mining practices:
(i)  is presumed to be reasonable; and
(ii)  may not constitute a private or public nuisance under Section 76-10-803.
(c)  A vested mining use in operation for more than three years may not be
considered to have become a private or public nuisance because of a subsequent
change in the condition of land within the vicinity of the vested mining use.
(4) (a)  For any new subdivision development located in whole or in part
within 300 feet of the boundary of an agriculture protection area, the owner
of the development shall provide notice on any plat filed with the county
recorder the following notice:
"Agriculture Protection Area
This property is located in the vicinity of an established agriculture
protection area in which normal agricultural uses and activities have been
afforded the highest priority use status.  It can be anticipated that such
agricultural uses and activities may now or in the future be conducted on
property included in the agriculture protection area.  The use and enjoyment
of this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any annoyance or
inconvenience which may result from such normal agricultural uses and
activities."
(b)  For any new subdivision development located in whole or in part within
1,000 feet of the boundary of an industrial protection area, the owner of the
development shall provide notice on any plat filed with the county recorder
the following notice:
"Industrial Protection Area
This property is located in the vicinity of an established industrial
protection area in which normal industrial uses and activities have been
afforded the highest priority use status.  It can be anticipated that such
industrial uses and activities may now or in the future be conducted on
property included in the industrial protection area.  The use and enjoyment of
this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any annoyance or
inconvenience which may result from such normal industrial uses and
activities."
(c)  For any new subdivision development located in whole or in part within
1,000 feet of the boundary of a mining protection area, the owner of the
development shall provide notice on any plat filed with the county recorder
the following notice:
"This property is located within the vicinity of an established mining
protection area in which normal mining uses and activities have been afforded
the highest priority use status.  It can be anticipated that the mining uses
and activities may now or in the future be conducted on property included in
the mining protection area.  The use and enjoyment of this property is
expressly conditioned on acceptance of any annoyance or inconvenience that may
result from the normal mining uses and activities."
