17-41-405.   Eminent domain restrictions.
(1)  A political subdivision having or exercising eminent domain powers may
not condemn for any purpose any land within an agriculture protection area
that is being used for agricultural production or any land within an
industrial protection area that is being put to an industrial use unless it
has obtained approval, according to the procedures and requirements of this
section, from the applicable legislative body and the advisory board.
(2)  Any condemnor wishing to condemn property within an agriculture
protection area or industrial protection area shall file a notice of
condemnation with the applicable legislative body and the agriculture
protection area or industrial protection area's advisory board at least 30
days before filing an eminent domain complaint.
(3)  The applicable legislative body and the advisory board shall:
(a)  hold a joint public hearing on the proposed condemnation at a location
within the county in which the agriculture protection area or industrial
protection area is located;
(b)  publish notice of the time, date, place, and purpose of the public
hearing:
(i)  in a newspaper of general circulation within the agriculture protection
area or industrial protection area, as the case may be; and
(ii)  as required in Section 45-1-101; and
(c)  post notice of the time, date, place, and purpose of the public hearing
in five conspicuous public places, designated by the applicable legislative
body, within or near the agriculture protection area or industrial protection
area, as the case may be.
(4) (a)  If the condemnation is for highway purposes or for the disposal of
solid or liquid waste materials, the applicable legislative body and the
advisory board may approve the condemnation only if there is no reasonable and
prudent alternative to the use of the land within the agriculture protection
area or industrial protection area for the project.
(b)  If the condemnation is for any other purpose, the applicable legislative
body and the advisory board may approve the condemnation only if:
(i)  the proposed condemnation would not have an unreasonably adverse effect
upon the preservation and enhancement of agriculture within the agriculture
protection area or of the industrial use within the industrial protection
area; or
(ii)  there is no reasonable and prudent alternative to the use of the land
within the agriculture protection area or industrial protection area for the
project.
(5) (a)  Within 60 days after receipt of the notice of condemnation, the
applicable legislative body and the advisory board shall approve or reject the
proposed condemnation.
(b)  If the applicable legislative body and the advisory board fail to act
within the 60 days or such further time as the applicable legislative body
establishes, the condemnation shall be considered rejected.
(6)  The applicable legislative body or the advisory board may request the
county or municipal attorney to bring an action to enjoin any condemnor from
violating any provisions of this section.
