31A-7-403.   Conversion to a Title 31A, Chapter 5, mutual insurer.

(1)  An insurer organized and operating under this chapter may be converted into a mutual insurer under Chapter 5 as provided in this section.

(2) (a)  The board shall pass a resolution that the conversion is not contrary to the interests of the policyholders specifying the reasons for and the purposes of the proposed conversion, and the manner in which the conversion is expected to affect policyholders, particularly the policyholders that are members.

(b)  The board's resolution shall also set forth a plan of conversion which shall include:

(i)  the articles of incorporation of the new Chapter 5 mutual insurer, including a description of the classes of policyholders who, by virtue of being policyholders, will have an interest in the converted insurer;

(ii)  the bylaws of the new Chapter 5 mutual insurer;

(iii)  a description of any changes in the insurer's mode of operations after conversion to a Chapter 5 mutual insurer; and

(iv)  any other items specified by rule.

(3)  The provisions of Chapter 16 apply to the conversion of a Chapter 7 insurer to a Chapter 5 mutual insurance corporation.

(4)  The plan of conversion shall be submitted to the commissioner for approval, together with a projection of the planned or anticipated financial condition of the insurer for two years after the conversion.

(5)  The commissioner shall hold an adjudicative proceeding concerning the conversion application.

(6)  The commissioner shall approve the plan of conversion, unless he finds that the plan violates the law, is contrary to the interests of policyholders or the public, or would result in an unfair distribution of interest among the insurer's policyholders.

(7) (a)  Upon the commissioner approving the conversion under Subsection (6), the commissioner shall issue a new certificate of authority.

(b)  The issuance of the certificate is the conversion, and upon issuance of the certificate the Chapter 7 insurer at once becomes a mutual insurance corporation organized under and fully subject to Chapter 5.

(c)  The mutual insurer is considered to have been organized at the time the converted Chapter 7 insurer was organized.

(d)  Unless otherwise provided in the plan of conversion, the directors, officers, agents, and employees of the Chapter 7 insurer shall continue in like capacity with the mutual insurance corporation.

