4-23-4.   Agricultural and Wildlife Damage Prevention Board created --
Composition -- Appointment -- Terms -- Vacancies -- Compensation.
(1)  There is created an Agricultural and Wildlife Damage Prevention Board
composed of the commissioner and the director of the Division of Wildlife
Resources, who shall serve, respectively, as the board's chair and vice chair,
together with seven other members appointed by the governor to four-year terms
of office as follows:
(a)  one sheep producer representing wool growers of the state;
(b)  one cattle producer representing range cattle producers of the state;
(c)  one person from the United States Department of Agriculture;
(d)  one agricultural landowner representing agricultural landowners of the
state;
(e)  one person representing wildlife interests in the state;
(f)  one person from the United States Forest Service; and
(g)  one person from the United States Bureau of Land Management.
(2)  Appointees' term of office shall commence June 1.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (b), as terms of current board
members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (a), the governor shall,
at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to
ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(5)  Attendance of five members at a duly called meeting shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of official business.  The board shall convene at
the times and places prescribed by the  chair or vice chair.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
