17C-1-601.   Annual agency budget -- Fiscal year -- Public hearing required
-- Auditor forms -- Requirement to file form.
(1)  Each agency shall prepare and its board adopt an annual budget of
revenues and expenditures for the agency for each fiscal year.
(2)  Each annual agency budget shall be adopted:
(a)  for an agency created by a city or town, before June 22; or
(b)  for an agency created by a county, before December 15.
(3)  The agency's fiscal year shall be the same as the fiscal year of the
community that created the agency.
(4) (a)  Before adopting an annual budget, each agency board shall hold a
public hearing on the annual budget.
(b)  Each agency shall provide notice of the public hearing on the annual
budget by:
(i)  publishing:
(A) (I)  at least one notice in a newspaper of general circulation within the
agency boundaries, one week before the public hearing; or
(II)  if there is no newspaper of general circulation within the agency
boundaries, posting a notice of the public hearing in at least three public
places within the agency boundaries; and
(B)  in accordance with Section 45-1-101, at least one week before the public
hearing.
(c)  Each agency shall make the annual budget available for public inspection
at least three days before the date of the public hearing.
(5)  The state auditor shall prescribe the budget forms and the categories to
be contained in each agency budget, including:
(a)  revenues and expenditures for the budget year;
(b)  legal fees; and
(c)  administrative costs, including rent, supplies, and other materials, and
salaries of  agency personnel.
(6) (a)  Within 90 days after adopting an annual budget, each agency board
shall file a copy of the annual budget with the auditor of the county in which
the agency is located, the State Tax Commission, the state auditor, the State
Board of Education, and each taxing entity that levies a tax on property from
which the agency collects tax increment.
(b)  The requirement of Subsection (6)(a) to file a copy of the annual budget
with the state as a taxing entity is met if the agency files a copy with the
State Tax Commission and the state auditor.
