17C-1-701.   Approval of agency deactivation and dissolution -- Restrictions
-- Notice -- Recording requirements -- Agency records -- Dissolution expenses.
(1) (a)  Subject to Subsection (1)(b), the legislative body of the community
that created an agency may, by ordinance, approve the deactivation and
dissolution of the agency.
(b)  An ordinance under Subsection (1)(a) approving the deactivation and
dissolution of an agency may not be adopted unless the agency has no
outstanding bonded indebtedness, other unpaid loans, indebtedness, or
advances, and no legally binding contractual obligations with persons or
entities other than the community.
(2) (a)  The community legislative body shall:
(i)  within 10 days after adopting an ordinance under Subsection (1), file
with the lieutenant governor a copy of a notice of an impending boundary
action, as defined in Section 67-1a-6.5, that meets the requirements of
Subsection 67-1a-6.5(3); and
(ii)  upon the lieutenant governor's issuance of a certificate of dissolution
under Section 67-1a-6.5, submit to the recorder of the county in which the
agency is located:
(A)  the original notice of an impending boundary action;
(B)  the original certificate of dissolution; and
(C)  a certified copy of the ordinance approving the deactivation and
dissolution of the agency.
(b)  Upon the lieutenant governor's issuance of the certificate of dissolution
under Section 67-1a-6.5, the agency is dissolved.
(c)  Within 10 days after receiving the certificate of dissolution from the
lieutenant governor under Section 67-1a-6.5, the community legislative body
shall send a copy of the certificate of dissolution and the ordinance adopted
under Subsection (1) to the State Board of Education, and each taxing entity.
(d)  The community legislative body shall publish a notice of dissolution in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the dissolved agency
is located.
(3)  The books, documents, records, papers, and seal of each dissolved agency
shall be deposited for safekeeping and reference with the recorder of the
community that dissolved the agency.
(4)  The agency shall pay all expenses of the deactivation and dissolution.
