53B-7-101.5.   Proposed tuition increases -- Notice -- Hearings.
(1)  If an institution within the State System of Higher Education listed in
Section 53B-1-102 considers increasing tuition rates for undergraduate
students in the process of preparing or implementing its budget, it shall hold
a meeting to receive public input and response on the issue.
(2)  The institution shall advertise the hearing required under Subsection (1)
using the following procedure:
(a)  The institution shall advertise its intent to consider an increase in
student tuition rates:
(i)  in the institution's student newspaper; and
(ii)  as required in Section 45-1-101.
(b)  The advertisement shall be run twice during a period of 10 days prior to
the meeting.
(c)  The advertisement shall state that the institution will meet on a certain
day, time, and place fixed in the advertisement, which shall not be less than
seven days after the day the second advertisement is published, for the
purpose of hearing comments regarding the proposed increase and to explain the
reasons for the proposed increase.
(3)  The form and content of the notice shall be substantially as follows:
"NOTICE OF PROPOSED TUITION INCREASE
The (name of the higher education institution) is proposing to increase
student tuition rates.  This would be an increase of ______ %, which is an
increase of $______ per semester for a full-time resident undergraduate
student.  All concerned students and citizens are invited to a public hearing
on the proposed increase to be held at (meeting place) on (date) at (time)."
(4) (a)  The institution shall provide the following information to those in
attendance at the meeting required under Subsection (1):
(i)  the current year's student enrollment for:
(A)  the State System of Higher Education, if a systemwide increase is being
considered; or
(B)  the institution, if an increase is being considered for just a single
institution;
(ii)  total tuition revenues for the current school year;
(iii)  projected student enrollment growth for the next school year and
projected tuition revenue increases from that anticipated growth; and
(iv)  a detailed accounting of how and where the increased tuition revenues
would be spent.
(b)  The enrollment and revenue data required under Subsection (4)(a) shall be
broken down into majors or departments if the proposed tuition increases are
department or major specific.
(5)  If the institution does not make a final decision on the proposed tuition
increase at the meeting, it shall announce the date, time, and place of the
meeting where that determination shall be made.
