20A-12-306 (Superseded 01/01/11).   Judges -- Failure to file reports --
Penalties.
(1) (a)  If a judge's personal campaign committee fails to file the interim
report due before the regular general election, the lieutenant governor shall,
after making a reasonable attempt to discover if the report was timely mailed,
inform the county clerk and other appropriate election officials who:
(i)  shall, if practicable, remove the name of the judge by blacking out the
judge's name before the ballots are delivered to voters; or
(ii)  shall, if removing the judge's name from the ballot is not practicable,
inform the voters by any practicable method that the judge has been
disqualified and that votes cast for the judge will not be counted; and
(iii)  may not count any votes for that judge.
(b)  Any judge who fails to file timely a financial statement required by this
part is disqualified.
(c)  Notwithstanding Subsections (1)(a) and (1)(b), a judge is not
disqualified if:
(i)  the candidate files the reports required by this section;
(ii)  those reports are completed, detailing accurately and completely the
information required by this part except for inadvertent omissions or
insignificant errors or inaccuracies; and
(iii)  those omissions, errors, or inaccuracies are corrected in an amended
report or in the next scheduled report.
(2) (a)  Within 30 days after a deadline for the filing of a summary report,
the lieutenant governor shall review each filed summary report to ensure that:
(i)  each judge that is required to file a summary report has filed one; and
(ii)  each summary report contains the information required by this part.
(b)  If it appears that any judge has failed to file the summary report
required by law, if it appears that a filed summary report does not conform to
the law, or if the lieutenant governor has received a written complaint
alleging a violation of the law or the falsity of any summary report, the
lieutenant governor shall, within five days of discovery of a violation or
receipt of a written complaint, notify the judge of the violation or written
complaint and direct the judge to file a summary report correcting the
problem.
(c) (i)  It is unlawful for any judge to fail to file or amend a summary
report within 14 days after receiving notice from the lieutenant governor
under this section.
(ii)  Each judge who violates Subsection (2)(c)(i) is guilty of a class B
misdemeanor.
(iii)  The lieutenant governor shall report all violations of Subsection
(2)(c)(i) to the attorney general.
