4-13-8.   Suspension or revocation authorized -- Refusal to register
authorized -- Grounds -- Stop sale, use, or removal order authorized -- Court
action -- Procedure -- Costs.
(1)  The department may revoke or suspend the registration of any brand of
commercial fertilizer or soil amendment, or refuse to register any brand of
commercial fertilizer or soil amendment upon satisfactory evidence that the
registrant has used fraudulent or deceptive practices in registration or
distribution in this state.
(2)  The department may issue a "stop sale, use or removal order" to the owner
or person in possession of any designated lot of commercial fertilizer or soil
amendment which it finds or has reason to believe is being offered or exposed
for sale in violation of this chapter. The order shall be in writing and no
commercial fertilizer or soil amendment subject to it shall be moved or
offered or exposed for sale, except upon the subsequent written release of the
department. Before a release is issued, the department may require the owner
or person in possession of the "stopped" lot to pay the expense incurred by
the department in connection with the withdrawal of the product from the
market.
(3)  The department is authorized in a court of competent jurisdiction to seek
an order of seizure or condemnation of any fertilizer which violates this
chapter or, upon proper grounds, to obtain a temporary restraining order or
permanent injunction, to prevent violation of this chapter. No bond shall be
required of the department in any injunctive proceeding under this section.
(4)  If condemnation is ordered, the fertilizer or soil amendment shall be
disposed of as the court directs; provided, that in no event shall it order
condemnation without giving the claimant of the fertilizer or soil amendment
an opportunity to apply to the court for permission to relabel, reprocess, or
otherwise bring the product into conformance, or to remove it from the state.
(5)  If the court orders condemnation of the commercial fertilizer or soil
amendment, court costs, fees, storage, and other expenses shall be awarded
against the claimant of the fertilizer or soil amendment.
