53B-10-101.   Terrel H. Bell Teaching Incentive Loans program -- Eligible
students -- Cancellation of incentive loans -- Repayment by recipient who
fails to meet requirements -- Duration of incentive loans.
(1) (a)  A Terrel H. Bell Teaching Incentive Loans program is established to
recruit and train superior candidates for teaching in Utah's public school
system as a component of the teacher quality continuum referred to in
Subsections 53A-1a-104(7) and 53A-6-102(2)(a).
(b)  Under the program, the incentive loans may be used in any of Utah's
state-operated institutions of higher education or at a private institution of
higher education in Utah that offers a state-approved teacher education
program.
(2) (a)  The State Board of Regents shall award the incentive loans to college
students who have been admitted to, or have made application to and are
prepared to enter into, a program preparing students for licensure and who
declare an intent to complete the prescribed course of instruction and to
teach in this state in accordance with the priorities described under
Subsection (5)(c).
(b)  The incentive loan may be canceled at any time by the institution of
attendance if:
(i)  the student fails to make reasonable progress towards completion of
licensing requirements; or
(ii)  it appears to be a reasonable certainty that the student does not intend
to teach in Utah.
(c)  The State Board of Regents may grant leaves of absence to incentive loan
holders.
(3)  The State Board of Regents may require an incentive loan recipient who
fails to complete the requirements for licensing without good cause to repay
all tuition and fees provided by the loan, together with appropriate interest.
(4) (a)  The State Board of Regents may require an incentive loan recipient
who does not work in the state's public school system or a private school
within the state within two years after graduation to repay all tuition and
fees provided by the loan, together with appropriate interest, unless waived
for good cause.
(b) (i)  A recipient who does not teach for a term equal to the number of
years of the incentive loan within a reasonable period of time after
graduation shall repay a graduated portion of the tuition and fees based upon
the uncompleted term.
(ii)  One year of teaching is credit for one year's tuition and fees.
(c)  All repayments made under this Subsection (4) are for use in the Terrel
H. Bell Teaching Incentive Loans program.
(5) (a)  Each incentive loan is valid for up to four years of full-time
equivalent enrollment, or until requirements for licensing or advanced
licensing have been met, whichever is less.
(b) (i)  Incentive loans apply to both tuition and fees in amounts and are
subject to conditions approved by the State Board of Regents, based upon
criteria developed to insure that all recipients of the loans will pursue an
education career within the state.
(ii)  An incentive loan for tuition and fees at a private institution may not
exceed the average scholarship amounts granted for tuition and fees at public
institutions of higher education within the state.
(c)  Incentive loans shall be awarded in accordance with prioritized critical
areas of need for teaching expertise within the state, as determined by the
State Board of Education's criticality index and school district priorities
based upon data provided by the school district, and may include preparing
persons as:
(i)  a special education teacher;
(ii)  a speech or language pathologist; or
(iii)  another licensed professional providing services in the public schools
to pupils with disabilities.
