32A-1-105.   Definitions.
As used in this title:
(1)  "Airport lounge" means a place of business licensed to sell an alcoholic
beverage, at retail, for consumption on its premises located at an
international airport with a United States Customs office on the premises of
the international airport.
(2)  "Alcoholic beverage" means the following as the term is defined in this
section:
(a)  beer;
(b)  flavored malt beverage; and
(c)  liquor, which includes a flavored malt beverage.
(3) (a)  "Alcoholic product" means a product that:
(i)  contains at least .5% of alcohol by volume; and
(ii) is obtained by fermentation, infusion, decoction, brewing, distillation,
or other process that uses liquid or combinations of liquids, whether
drinkable or not, to create alcohol in an amount greater than the amount
prescribed in Subsection (3)(a)(i).
(b)  "Alcoholic product" does not include any of the following common items
that otherwise come within the definition of an alcoholic product:
(i)  except as provided in Subsection (3)(c), extract;
(ii)  vinegar;
(iii)  cider;
(iv)  essence;
(v)  tincture;
(vi)  food preparation; or
(vii)  an over-the-counter drug or medicine.
(c)  An extract containing alcohol obtained by distillation is regulated as an
alcoholic product when it is used as a flavoring in the manufacturing of an
alcoholic product.
(4) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), "bar" means a counter or
similar structure:
(i)  at which an alcoholic beverage or an alcoholic product is:
(A)  stored; or
(B)  dispensed; or
(ii)  from which an alcoholic beverage is served.
(b)  For purposes of Chapter 4, Part 1, Restaurant Liquor Licenses, and
Chapter 4, Part 3, Limited Restaurant Licenses, "bar structure" means a
surface or structure on the premises of a restaurant if on or at any place of
the surface or structure an alcoholic beverage or alcoholic product is:
(i)  stored; or
(ii)  dispensed.
(5) (a)  Subject to Subsection (5)(d), "beer" means a product that:
(i)  contains at least .5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 4% of
alcohol by volume or 3.2% by weight; and
(ii)  is obtained by fermentation, infusion, or decoction of malted grain.
(b)  Beer may or may not contain hops or other vegetable products.
(c)  Beer includes a product that:
(i)  contains alcohol in the percentages described in Subsection (5)(a); and
(ii)  is referred to as:
(A)  beer;
(B)  ale;
(C)  porter;
(D)  stout;
(E)  lager; or
(F)  a malt or malted beverage.
(d) "Beer" does not include a flavored malt beverage.
(6) (a)  "Beer retailer" means a business that is:
(i)  engaged, primarily or incidentally, in the retail sale of beer to a
patron, whether for consumption on or off the business premises; and
(ii)  licensed to sell beer by:
(A)  the commission;
(B)  a local authority; or
(C)  both the commission and a local authority.
(b) (i)  "Off-premise beer retailer" means a business that is engaged in the
retail sale of beer to a patron for consumption off the beer retailer's
premises.
(ii)  "Off-premise beer retailer" does not include an on-premise beer
retailer.
(c)  "On-premise beer retailer" means a business that is engaged in the sale
of beer to a patron for consumption on the beer retailer's premises,
regardless of whether the business sells beer for consumption off the beer
retailer's premises.
(7)  "Billboard" means a public display used to advertise including:
(a)  a light device;
(b)  a painting;
(c)  a drawing;
(d)  a poster;
(e)  a sign;
(f)  a signboard; or
(g)  a scoreboard.
(8)  "Brewer" means a person engaged in manufacturing:
(a)  beer;
(b)  heavy beer; or
(c)  a flavored malt beverage.
(9)  "Cash bar" means the service of an alcoholic beverage:
(a)  at:
(i)  a banquet; or
(ii)  a temporary event for which a permit is issued under this title; and
(b)  if an attendee at the banquet or temporary event is charged for the
alcoholic beverage.
(10)  "Chartered bus" means a passenger bus, coach, or other motor vehicle
provided by a bus company to a group of persons pursuant to a common purpose:
(a)  under a single contract;
(b)  at a fixed charge in accordance with the bus company's tariff; and
(c)  for the purpose of giving the group of persons the exclusive use of the
passenger bus, coach, or other motor vehicle and a driver to travel together
to one or more specified destinations.
(11)  "Church" means a building:
(a)  set apart for the purpose of worship;
(b)  in which religious services are held;
(c)  with which clergy is associated; and
(d)  which is tax exempt under the laws of this state.
(12) "Club licensee" means a person licensed under Chapter 5, Club Licenses.
(13)  "Commission" means the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.
(14)  "Community location" means:
(a)  a public or private school;
(b)  a church;
(c)  a public library;
(d)  a public playground; or
(e)  a public park.
(15)  "Community location governing authority" means:
(a)  the governing body of the community location; or
(b)  if the commission does not know who is the governing body of a community
location, a person who appears to the commission to have been given on behalf
of the community location authority to prohibit an activity at the community
location.
(16)  For purposes of Chapter 4, Part 1, Restaurant Liquor Licenses, and
Chapter 4, Part 3, Limited Restaurant Licenses:
(a)  Subject to Subsection (16)(b), "counter" means a surface or structure in
a dining area of a restaurant where seating is provided to a patron for
service of food.
(b)  "Counter" does not include a surface or structure if on or at any point
of the surface or structure an alcoholic beverage or alcoholic product is:
(i)  stored; or
(ii)  dispensed.
(17)  "Department" means the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
(18)  "Disciplinary proceeding" means an adjudicative proceeding permitted
under this title:
(a)  against:
(i)  a permittee;
(ii)  a licensee;
(iii)  a manufacturer;
(iv)  a supplier;
(v)  an importer;
(vi)  an out-of-state brewer holding a certificate of approval under Section
32A-8-101; or
(vii)  an officer, employee, or agent of:
(A)  a person listed in Subsections (18)(a)(i) through (vi); or
(B)  a package agent; and
(b)  that is brought on the basis of a violation of this title.
(19)  "Director," unless the context requires otherwise, means the director
appointed under Section 32A-1-108.
(20)  For purposes of Chapter 4, Part 1, Restaurant Liquor Licenses, and
Chapter 4, Part 3, Limited Restaurant Licenses, "dispense" means:
(a)  drawing of an alcoholic beverage or alcoholic product:
(i)  from an area where it is stored; or
(ii)  as provided in Subsection 32A-4-106(7)(e)(ii)(B) or
32A-4-307(7)(e)(ii)(B); and
(b)  using the alcoholic beverage or alcoholic product described in Subsection
(20)(a) on the premises of the restaurant to mix or prepare an alcoholic
beverage for service to a patron of the restaurant.
(21)  "Distressed merchandise" means an alcoholic beverage in the possession
of the department that is saleable, but for some reason is unappealing to the
public.
(22)  "Flavored malt beverage" means a beverage:
(a)  that contains at least .5% alcohol by volume;
(b)  that is treated by processing, filtration, or another method of
manufacture that is not generally recognized as a traditional process in the
production of a beer as described in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 25.55;
(c)  to which is added a flavor or other ingredient containing alcohol, except
for a hop extract; and
(d) (i)  for which the producer is required to file a formula for approval
with the United States Alcohol and Tobacco Trade and Tax Bureau pursuant to 27
C.F.R. Sec. 25.55; or
(ii)  that is not exempt under Subdivision (f) of 27 C.F.R. Sec. 25.55.
(23)  "Guest" means an individual who meets the requirements of Subsection
32A-5-107(1)(i) or (j).
(24) (a)  "Heavy beer" means a product that:
(i)  contains more than 4% alcohol by volume; and
(ii)  is obtained by fermentation, infusion, or decoction of malted grain.
(b)  "Heavy beer" is considered "liquor" for the purposes of this title.
(25)  "Hosted bar" means the service of an alcoholic beverage:
(a)  without charge; and
(b)  at a:
(i)  banquet; or
(ii)  privately hosted event.
(26)  "Identification card" means an identification card issued under Title
53, Chapter 3, Part 8, Identification Card Act.
(27)  "Interdicted person" means a person to whom the sale, gift, or provision
of an alcoholic beverage is prohibited by:
(a)  law; or
(b)  court order.
(28)  "Intoxicated" means that a person:
(a)  is significantly impaired as to the person's mental or physical functions
as a result of the use of:
(i)  an alcoholic beverage;
(ii)  a controlled substance;
(iii)  a substance having the property of releasing toxic vapors; or
(iv)  a combination of Subsections (28)(a)(i) through (iii); and
(b)  exhibits plain and easily observed outward manifestations of behavior or
physical signs produced by the over consumption of an alcoholic beverage.
(29)  "Invitee" is as defined in Section 32A-4a-102.
(30)  "Licensee" means a person granted a license by the commission to sell,
manufacture, store, or allow consumption of an alcoholic beverage on premises
owned or controlled by the person.
(31)  "Limousine" means a motor vehicle licensed by the state or a local
authority, other than a bus or taxicab:
(a)  in which the driver and a passenger are separated by a partition, glass,
or other barrier; and
(b)  that is provided by a company to one or more individuals at a fixed
charge in accordance with the company's tariff for the purpose of giving the
one or more individuals the exclusive use of the limousine and a driver to
travel to one or more specified destinations.
(32) (a) (i) "Liquor" means alcohol, or an alcoholic, spirituous, vinous,
fermented, malt, or other liquid, or combination of liquids, a part of which
is spirituous, vinous, or fermented, or other drink, or drinkable liquid that:
(A)  contains at least .5% alcohol by volume; and
(B)  is suitable to use for beverage purposes.
(ii) "Liquor" includes a flavored malt beverage.
(b)  "Liquor" does not include a beverage defined as a beer.
(33)  "Local authority" means:
(a)  the governing body of the county if the premises are located in an
unincorporated area of a county; or
(b)  the governing body of the city or town if the premises are located in an
incorporated city or a town.
(34)  "Manufacture" means to distill, brew, rectify, mix, compound, process,
ferment, or otherwise make an alcoholic product for personal use or for sale
or distribution to others.
(35)  "Member" means an individual who, after paying regular dues, has full
privileges of an equity club licensee or fraternal club licensee, as defined
in Section 32A-5-101.
(36) (a)  "Military installation" means a base, air field, camp, post,
station, yard, center, or homeport facility for a ship:
(i) (A)  under the control of the United States Department of Defense; or
(B)  of the National Guard;
(ii)  that is located within the state; and
(iii)  including a leased facility.
(b)  "Military installation" does not include a facility used primarily for:
(i)  civil works;
(ii)  a rivers and harbors project; or
(iii)  a flood control project.
(37)  "Minor" means an individual under the age of 21 years.
(38)  "Nude," "nudity," or "state of nudity" means:
(a)  the appearance of:
(i)  the nipple or areola of a female human breast;
(ii)  a human genital;
(iii)  a human pubic area; or
(iv)  a human anus; or
(b)  a state of dress that fails to opaquely cover:
(i)  the nipple or areola of a female human breast;
(ii)  a human genital;
(iii)  a human pubic area; or
(iv)  a human anus.
(39)  "Outlet" means a location other than a state store or package agency
where an alcoholic beverage is sold pursuant to a license granted by the
commission.
(40)  "Package" means any of the following containing liquor:
(a)  a container;
(b)  a bottle;
(c)  a vessel; or
(d)  other receptacle.
(41)  "Package agency" means a retail liquor location operated:
(a)  under a contractual agreement with the department; and
(b)  by a person:
(i)  other than the state; and
(ii)  who is authorized by the commission to sell package liquor for
consumption off the premises of the package agency.
(42)  "Package agent" means a person permitted by the commission to operate a
package agency pursuant to a contractual agreement with the department to sell
liquor from premises that the package agent shall provide and maintain.
(43)  "Permittee" means a person issued a permit by the commission to perform
an act or exercise a privilege as specifically granted in the permit.
(44)  "Person" means an individual, partnership, firm, corporation, limited
liability company, association, business trust, or other form of business
enterprise, including a receiver or trustee, and the plural as well as the
singular number, unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed
by the context.
(45)  "Premises" means a building, enclosure, room, or equipment used in
connection with the sale, storage, service, manufacture, distribution, or
consumption of an alcoholic product, unless otherwise defined in this title or
in the rules adopted by the commission.
(46)  "Prescription" means a writing in legal form, signed by a physician or
dentist and given to a patient for obtaining an alcoholic beverage for
medicinal purposes only.
(47) (a)  "Privately hosted event" or "private social function" means a
specific social, business, or recreational event:
(i)  for which an entire room, area, or hall is leased or rented in advance by
an identified group; and
(ii)  that is limited in attendance to people who are specifically designated
and their guests.
(b)  "Privately hosted event" and "private social function" does not include
an event to which the general public is invited, whether for an admission fee
or not.
(48) (a)  "Proof of age" means:
(i)  an identification card;
(ii)  an identification that:
(A)  is substantially similar to an identification card;
(B)  is issued in accordance with the laws of a state other than Utah in which
the identification is issued;
(C)  includes date of birth; and
(D)  has a picture affixed;
(iii)  a valid driver license certificate that:
(A)  includes date of birth;
(B)  has a picture affixed; and
(C)  is issued:
(I)  under Title 53, Chapter 3, Uniform Driver License Act; or
(II)  in accordance with the laws of the state in which it is issued;
(iv)  a military identification card that:
(A)  includes date of birth; and
(B)  has a picture affixed; or
(v)  a valid passport.
(b)  "Proof of age" does not include a driving privilege card issued in
accordance with Section 53-3-207.
(49) (a)  "Public building" means a building or permanent structure owned or
leased by the state, a county, or local government entity that is used for:
(i)  public education;
(ii)  transacting public business; or
(iii)  regularly conducting government activities.
(b)  "Public building" does not mean or refer to a building owned by the state
or a county or local government entity when the building is used by a person,
in whole or in part, for a proprietary function.
(50)  "Representative" means an individual who is compensated by salary,
commission, or other means for representing and selling an alcoholic beverage
product of a manufacturer, supplier, or importer of liquor including:
(a)  wine;
(b)  heavy beer; or
(c) a flavored malt beverage.
(51)  "Residence" means a person's principal place of abode within Utah.
(52)  "Resident," in relation to a resort, is as defined in Section 32A-
4a-102.
(53)  "Resort" is as defined in Section 32A-4a-102.
(54)  "Restaurant" means a business establishment:
(a)  where a variety of foods are prepared and complete meals are served to
the general public;
(b)  located on a premises having adequate culinary fixtures for food
preparation and dining accommodations; and
(c)  that is engaged primarily in serving meals to the general public.
(55)  "Retailer" means a person engaged in the sale or distribution of an
alcoholic beverage to a consumer.
(56) (a)  "Sample" includes:
(i)  a department sample; and
(ii)  an industry representative sample.
(b)  "Department sample" means liquor that is placed in the possession of the
department for testing, analysis, and sampling including:
(i)  wine;
(ii)  heavy beer; or
(iii) a flavored malt beverage.
(c)  "Industry representative sample" means liquor that is placed in the
possession of the department:
(i)  for testing, analysis, and sampling by a local industry representative on
the premises of the department to educate the local industry representative of
the quality and characteristics of the product; and
(ii)  including:
(A)  wine;
(B)  heavy beer; or
(C) a flavored malt beverage.
(57) (a)  "School" means a building used primarily for the general education
of minors.
(b)  "School" does not include:
(i)  a nursery school;
(ii)  an infant day care center; or
(iii)  a trade or technical school.
(58)  "Sell," "sale," and "to sell" means a transaction, exchange, or barter
whereby, for consideration, an alcoholic beverage is either directly or
indirectly transferred, solicited, ordered, delivered for value, or by a means
or under a pretext is promised or obtained, whether done by a person as a
principal, proprietor, or as an agent, servant, or employee, unless otherwise
defined in this title or the rules made by the commission.
(59)  "Seminude," "seminudity," or "state of seminudity" means a state of
dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than:
(a)  the nipple and areola of the female human breast in a shape and color
other than the natural shape and color of the nipple and areola; and
(b)  the human genitals, pubic area, and anus:
(i)  with no less than the following at its widest point:
(A)  four inches coverage width in the front of the human body; and
(B)  five inches coverage width in the back of the human body; and
(ii)  with coverage that does not taper to less than one inch wide at the
narrowest point.
(60)  "Sexually oriented entertainer" means a person who while in a state of
seminudity appears at or performs:
(a)  for the entertainment of one or more patrons;
(b)  on the premises of:
(i)  a social club licensee as defined in Section 32A-5-101; or
(ii)  a tavern;
(c)  on behalf of or at the request of the licensee described in Subsection
(60)(b);
(d)  on a contractual or voluntary basis; and
(e)  whether or not the person is designated:
(i)  an employee of the licensee described in Subsection (60)(b);
(ii)  an independent contractor of the licensee described in Subsection
(60)(b);
(iii)  an agent of the licensee described in Subsection (60)(b); or
(iv)  otherwise of the licensee described in Subsection (60)(b).
(61)  "Small brewer" means a brewer who manufactures less than 60,000 barrels
of beer, heavy beer, and flavored malt beverages per year.
(62) (a)  "Spirituous liquor" means liquor that is distilled.
(b)  "Spirituous liquor" includes an alcohol product defined as a "distilled
spirit" by 27 U.S.C. 211 and 27 C.F.R. Sections 5.11 through 5.23.
(63) (a)  "State store" means a facility for the sale of package liquor:
(i)  located on premises owned or leased by the state; and
(ii)  operated by a state employee.
(b)  "State store" does not apply to a:
(i)  licensee;
(ii)  permittee; or
(iii)  package agency.
(64)  For purposes of Chapter 4, Part 1, Restaurant Liquor Licenses, and
Chapter 4, Part 3, Limited Restaurant Licenses:
(a)   "Storage area" means an area on the premises of a restaurant where a
licensee stores an alcoholic beverage or alcoholic product.
(b)  "Store" means to place or maintain in a location an alcoholic beverage or
alcoholic product from which a person draws to prepare an alcoholic beverage
for service to a patron of the restaurant, except as provided in Subsection
32A-4-106(7)(e)(ii)(B) or 32A-4-307(7)(e)(ii)(B).
(65)  "Sublicense" is as defined in Section 32A-4a-102.
(66)  "Supplier" means a person selling an alcoholic beverage to the
department.
(67) (a)  "Tavern" means a business establishment that is:
(i)  engaged primarily in the retail sale of beer to a public patron for
consumption on the establishment's premises; and
(ii)  licensed to sell beer under Chapter 10, Part 2, On-Premise Beer Retailer
Licenses.
(b)  "Tavern" includes the following if the revenue from the sale of beer
exceeds the revenue of the sale of food, although food need not be sold in the
establishment:
(i)  a beer bar;
(ii)  a parlor;
(iii)  a lounge;
(iv)  a cabaret; or
(v)  a nightclub.
(68)  "Temporary domicile" means the principal place of abode within Utah of a
person who does not have a present intention to continue residency within Utah
permanently or indefinitely.
(69)  "Unsaleable liquor merchandise" means merchandise that:
(a)  is unsaleable because the merchandise is:
(i)  unlabeled;
(ii)  leaky;
(iii)  damaged;
(iv)  difficult to open; or
(v)  partly filled;
(b)  is in a container:
(i)  having faded labels or defective caps or corks;
(ii)  in which the contents are:
(A)  cloudy;
(B)  spoiled; or
(C)  chemically determined to be impure; or
(iii)  that contains:
(A)  sediment; or
(B)  a foreign substance; or
(c)  is otherwise considered by the department as unfit for sale.
(70)  "Warehouser" means a person, other than a licensed manufacturer, engaged
in the importation for sale, storage, or distribution of liquor regardless of
amount.
(71) (a)  "Wholesaler" means a person engaged in the importation for sale, or
in the sale of beer in wholesale or jobbing quantities to one or more
retailers.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (71)(a), "wholesaler" does not include a small
brewer selling beer manufactured by that brewer.
(72) (a)  "Wine" means an alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of
the natural sugar content of fruits, plants, honey, or milk, or other like
substance, whether or not another ingredient is added.
(b)  "Wine" is considered "liquor" for purposes of this title, except as
otherwise provided in this title.
