32A-1-106 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission --
Membership -- Oaths and bond -- Per diem -- Offices -- Removal -- Meetings.
(1)  The Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission shall act as a governing board
over the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
(2) (a)  The commission is composed of five part-time commissioners appointed
by the governor with the consent of the Senate.
(b)  No more than three commissioners may be of the same political party.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current
commissioners expire, the governor shall appoint each new commissioner or
reappointed commissioner to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of no more than two commissioners expire in a fiscal
year.
(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the commission for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term with the consent of the Senate.
(5)  Each commissioner shall qualify by taking the oath of office and by
giving bond to the state for faithful performance of duties in an amount
determined by the Division of Finance, and in a form approved by the attorney
general.  The bond premium shall be paid by the state.
(6)  A commissioner may not receive compensation or benefits for the
commissioner's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in
accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(7) (a)  The commission shall elect one of its members to serve as chair,
another to serve as vice chair, and other commission officers as it considers
advisable, all of whom shall serve at the pleasure of the commission.
(b)  All commissioners on the commission have equal voting rights on all
commission matters when in attendance at a commission meeting.
(c)  Three commissioners of the commission is a quorum for conducting
commission business.
(d)  A majority vote of the quorum present is required for any action to be
taken by the commission.
(8) (a) (i)  The governor may remove any commissioner from office for cause
after a public hearing conducted by the governor or by an impartial hearing
examiner appointed by the governor to conduct the hearing.
(ii)  The commissioner shall receive written notice of the date, time, and
place of the hearing along with the alleged grounds for the removal at least
10 days before the hearing.  The commissioner shall have the opportunity to
attend the hearing, present witnesses and other evidence, and confront and
cross examine witnesses.
(b)  Following the hearing, written findings of fact and conclusions of law
shall be prepared by the person conducting the hearing and a copy served upon
the commissioner.  If the hearing is before a hearing examiner, the hearing
examiner shall also issue a written recommendation to the governor.
(c)  The commissioner shall have five days to file written objections to the
recommendation before the governor issues a final order.  The governor's order
shall be in writing and served upon the commissioner.
(9) (a)  The commission shall meet at least monthly, but may hold other
meetings at times and places as scheduled by the commission, by the chair, or
by any three commissioners upon filing a written request for a meeting with
the chair.
(b)  Notice of the time and place of each commission meeting shall be given to
each commissioner, and to the public in compliance with Title 52, Chapter 4,
Open and Public Meetings Act.  All commission meetings shall be open to the
public, except those meetings or portions of meetings that are closed by the
commission as authorized by Sections 52-4-204 and 52-4-205.
