32A-1-113 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Department expenditures and revenues --
Liquor Control Fund -- Exempt from Division of Finance -- Annual audits.
(1) (a)  All money received by the department in the administration of this
title, except as otherwise provided, together with all property acquired,
administered, possessed, or received by the department, is the property of the
state.  Money received in the administration of this title shall be paid to
the department and transferred into the state treasury to the credit of the
Liquor Control Fund.
(b)  All expenses, debts, and liabilities incurred by the department in
connection with the administration of this title shall be paid from the Liquor
Control Fund.
(c)  The fiscal officers of the department shall transfer annually from the
Liquor Control Fund to the General Fund a sum equal to the amount of net
profit earned from the sale of liquor since the preceding transfer of funds.
The transfer shall be made within 90 days of the end of the department's
fiscal year on June 30.
(2) (a)  Deposits made by the department shall be made to banks designated as
state depositories and reported to the state treasurer at the end of each day.
(b)  Any member of the commission and any employee of the department is not
personally liable for any loss caused by the default or failure of
depositories.
(c)  All funds deposited in any bank or trust company are entitled to the same
priority of payment as other public funds of the state.
(3)  All expenditures necessary for the administration of this title,
including the payment of all salaries, premiums, if any, on bonds of the
commissioners, the director, and the department staff in all cases where bonds
are required, and all other expenditures incurred in establishing, operating,
and maintaining state stores and package agencies and in the administration of
this title, shall be paid by warrants drawn on the state treasurer paid out of
the Liquor Control Fund.
(4)  If the cash balance of the Liquor Control Fund is not adequate to cover
the warrants drawn against it by the state treasurer, the cash resources of
the General Fund may be utilized to the extent necessary.  However, at no time
may the fund equity of the Liquor Control Fund fall below zero.
(5) (a)  When any check issued in payment of any fees or costs authorized or
required by this title is returned to the department as dishonored:
(i)  the department may assess a service charge in an amount set by commission
rule against the person on whose behalf the check was tendered; and
(ii)  if the check that is returned to the department is from a licensee,
permittee, or package agent, it is grounds for:
(A)  the suspension or revocation of the license or permit; or
(B)  the suspension or termination of the operation of the package agency.
(b)  The revocation of a license or permit under this Subsection (5) is
grounds for the forfeiture of the bond of the:
(i)  licensee; or
(ii)  permittee.
(c)  The termination of the operation of a package agency under this
Subsection (5) is grounds for the forfeiture of the bond of the package
agency.
(6)  The laws that govern the Division of Finance and prescribe the general
powers and duties of the Division of Finance are not applicable to the
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control in the purchase and sale of alcoholic
products.
(7)  The accounts of the department shall be audited annually by the state
auditor or by any other person, firm, or corporation the state auditor
appoints.  The audit report shall be made to the state auditor, and copies
submitted to members of the Legislature not later than January 1 following the
close of the fiscal year for which the report is made.
