32A-1-119.5 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Timing of reporting violations.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Department compliance officer" means an individual who is:
(i)  an auditor or inspector; and
(ii)  employed by the department.
(b)  "Nondepartment enforcement agency" means an agency that:
(i) (A)  is a state agency other than the department; or
(B)  is an agency of a county, city, or town; and
(ii)  has a responsibility, as provided in another provision of this title, to
enforce one or more provisions of this title.
(c)  "Nondepartment enforcement officer" means an individual who is:
(i)  a peace officer, examiner, or investigator; and
(ii)  employed by an agency described in Subsection (1)(b).
(2)  A disciplinary proceeding may not be initiated or maintained by the
commission or department on the basis, in whole or in part, of a violation of
this title unless a person listed in Subsections 32A-1-105(18)(a)(i) through
(vi) against whom the violation is alleged is notified by the department of
the violation in accordance with this section.
(3) (a)  A nondepartment enforcement agency or nondepartment enforcement
officer may not report a violation of this title to the department more than
eight business days after the day on which a nondepartment enforcement officer
or agency completes an investigation that finds a violation of this title.
(b)  If the commission or department wants the right to initiate or maintain a
disciplinary proceeding on the basis, in whole or in part, of a violation of
this title alleged in a report described in Subsection (3)(a), the department
shall notify a person listed in Subsections 32A-1-105(18)(a)(i) through (vi)
alleged by the report to have violated this title:
(i)  by no later than eight business days of the day on which the department
receives the report described in Subsection (3)(a); and
(ii)  that the commission or department may initiate or maintain a
disciplinary proceeding on the basis, in whole or in part, of the violation.
(4)  If the commission or department wants the right to initiate or maintain a
disciplinary proceeding on the basis, in whole or in part, of a violation of
this title alleged by report of a department compliance officer, the
department shall notify a person listed in Subsections 32A-1-105(18)(a)(i)
through (vi) alleged by the report to have violated this title:
(a)  by no later than eight business days of the day on which the department
compliance officer completes an investigation that finds a violation of this
title; and
(b)  that the commission or department may initiate or maintain a disciplinary
proceeding on the basis, in whole or in part, of the violation.
(5)  The notice described in Subsection (2), (3)(b), or (4) is not required
with respect to a person listed in Subsection 32A-1-105(18)(a)(vii).
(6) (a)  A notice required by Subsection (2), (3)(b), or (4) may be done
orally, if after the oral notification the department provides written
notification.
(b)  The written notification described in Subsection (6)(a) may be sent
outside the time periods required by this section.
(7)  The department shall maintain a record of a notification required by
Subsection (2), (3)(b), or (4) that includes:
(a)  the name of the person notified; and
(b)  the date of the notification.
