32A-1-122.   Liquor prices -- School lunch program.
(1)  For purposes of this section:
(a) (i)  "Landed case cost" means:
(A)  the cost of the product; and
(B)  inbound shipping costs incurred by the department.
(ii)  "Landed case cost" does not include the outbound shipping cost from a
warehouse of the department to a state store.
(b)  "Proof gallon" has the same meaning as in 26 U.S.C. Sec. 5002.
(c)  Notwithstanding Section 32A-1-105, "small brewer" means a brewer who
manufactures less than 40,000 barrels of beer and heavy beer per year.
(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsections (2)(b) and (4), spirituous liquor
and wine sold by the department within the state shall be marked up in an
amount not less than 86% above the landed case cost to the department.
(b) Spirituous liquor and wine sold by the department to a military
installation in Utah shall be marked up in an amount not less than 15% above
the landed case cost to the department.
(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsections (3)(b) and (4), heavy beer sold by
the department within the state shall be marked up in an amount not less than
64.5% above the landed case cost to the department.
(b) Heavy beer sold by the department to a military installation in Utah shall
be marked up in an amount not less than 15% above the landed case cost to the
department.
(4) (a)  Except for spirituous liquor sold by the department to a military
installation in Utah, spirituous liquor that is sold by the department within
the state shall be marked up 47% above the landed case cost to the department
if:
(i)  the spirituous liquor is manufactured by a manufacturer producing less
than 30,000 proof gallons of spirituous liquor in a calendar year; and
(ii)  the manufacturer applies to the department for a reduced markup.
(b)  Except for wine sold by the department to a military installation in
Utah, wine that is sold by the department within the state shall be marked up
47% above the landed case cost to the department if:
(i)  the wine is manufactured by a manufacturer producing less than 20,000
gallons of wine in a calendar year; and
(ii)  the manufacturer applies to the department for a reduced markup.
(c)  Except for heavy beer sold by the department to a military installation
in Utah, heavy beer that is sold by the department within the state shall be
marked up 30% above the landed case cost to the department if:
(i)  a small brewer manufactures the heavy beer; and
(ii)  the small brewer applies to the department for a reduced markup.
(d)  The department shall verify an amount described in Subsection (4)(a) or
(b) pursuant to a federal or other verifiable production report.
(5) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b), a flavored malt beverage
sold by the department within the state shall be marked up in an amount not
less than 86% above the landed case cost to the department.
(b)  A flavored malt beverage sold by the department to a military
installation in Utah shall be marked up in an amount not less than 15% above
the landed case cost to the department.
(6)  Ten percent of the total gross revenue from sales of spirituous liquor,
wine, heavy beer, and flavored malt beverages shall be deposited by the
department with the state treasurer and credited to the Uniform School Fund to
be used to support the school lunch program administered by the State Board of
Education under Section 53A-19-201.
(7)  Nothing in this section prohibits the department from selling
discontinued items at a discount.
