32A-1-603.   Sexually oriented entertainer.
(1)  Subject to the restrictions of this section, live entertainment is
permitted on a premises or at an event regulated by the commission.
(2)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1), a licensee or permittee may not permit a
person to:
(a)  appear or perform in a state of nudity;
(b)  perform or simulate an act of:
(i)  sexual intercourse;
(ii)  masturbation;
(iii)  sodomy;
(iv)  bestiality;
(v)  oral copulation;
(vi)  flagellation; or
(vii)  a sexual act that is prohibited by Utah law; or
(c)  touch, caress, or fondle the breast, buttocks, anus, or genitals.
(3)  A sexually oriented entertainer may perform in a state of seminudity:
(a)  only in:
(i)  a tavern; or
(ii)  a social club license premises; and
(b)  only if:
(i)  all windows, doors, and other apertures to the premises are darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
performance; and
(ii)  the outside entrance doors of the premises remain unlocked.
(4)  A sexually oriented entertainer may perform only upon a stage or in a
designated performance area that is:
(a)  approved by the commission in accordance with rules made by the
commission in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act;
(b)  configured so as to preclude a patron from:
(i)  touching the sexually oriented entertainer; or
(ii)  placing any money or object on or within the costume or the person of
the sexually oriented entertainer; and
(c)  configured so as to preclude the sexually oriented entertainer from
touching a patron.
(5)  A sexually oriented entertainer may not touch a patron:
(a)  during the sexually oriented entertainer's performance; or
(b)  while the sexually oriented entertainer is dressed in performance attire
or costume.
(6)  A sexually oriented entertainer, while in the portion of the premises
used by patrons, must be dressed in opaque clothing which covers and conceals
the sexually oriented entertainer's performance attire or costume from the top
of the breast to the knee.
(7)  A patron may not be on the stage or in the performance area while a
sexually oriented entertainer is appearing or performing on the stage or in
the performance area.
(8)  A patron may not:
(a)  touch a sexually oriented entertainer:
(i)  during the sexually oriented entertainer's performance; or
(ii)  while the sexually oriented entertainer is dressed in performance attire
or costume; or
(b)  place money or any other object on or within the costume or the person of
the sexually oriented entertainer.
(9)  A minor may not be on a premises described in Subsection (3).
(10)  A person who appears or performs for the entertainment of patrons on a
premises or at an event regulated by the commission that is not a tavern or
social club licensee:
(a)  may not appear or perform in a state of nudity or a state of seminudity;
and
(b)  may appear or perform in opaque clothing that completely covers the
person's genitals, pubic area, and anus if the covering:
(i)  is not less than the following at its widest point:
(A)  four inches coverage width in the front of the human body; and
(B)  five inches coverage width in the back of the human body;
(ii)  does not taper to less than one inch wide at the narrowest point; and
(iii)  if covering a female, completely covers the breast below the top of the
areola.
