32A-1-704 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Criminal background check procedure.
(1) (a)  An individual described in Subsections 32A-1-702(2)(b) through (e)
shall provide a fingerprint card at the expense of the individual.
(b)  The department shall pay the expense of obtaining a fingerprint card
required of:
(i)  an applicant for employment with the department; or
(ii)  an employee of the department.
(2) (a)  The department shall obtain information from a criminal history
record maintained by the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification pursuant to
Title 53, Chapter 10, Part 2, Bureau of Criminal Identification, for a purpose
outlined in Section 32A-1-703.
(b)  An individual described in Subsections 32A-1-702(2)(b) through (e) shall
pay to the department the expense of obtaining the criminal history record
described in Subsection (2)(a).
(c)  The department shall pay the expense of obtaining the criminal history
record required for:
(i)  an applicant for employment with the department; or
(ii)  an employee of the department.
(3) (a)  The department shall submit a fingerprint card obtained under Section
32A-1-702 of an individual who has not resided in the state for at least two
years before the day on which the fingerprint card is submitted to the Utah
Bureau of Criminal Identification to be forwarded to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation for a nationwide criminal history record check.
(b)  An individual described in Subsections 32A-1-702(2)(b) through (e) shall
pay to the department the expense of obtaining the criminal history record
described in Subsection (3)(a).
(c)  The department shall pay the expense of obtaining the criminal history
record required for:
(i)  an applicant for employment with the department; or
(ii)  an employee of the department.
(4)  The department shall pay the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification the
costs incurred in providing the department criminal background information.
(5) (a)  The commission, the department, or an official or employee of the
commission or department may not disseminate a criminal history record
obtained under this part to any person except for a purpose described in
Section 32A-1-703.
(b) (i)  Notwithstanding Subsection (5)(a), a criminal history record obtained
under this part may be provided by the department to the individual who is the
subject of the criminal history record.
(ii)  The department shall provide an individual who is the subject of a
criminal history record and who requests the criminal history record an
opportunity to:
(A)  review the criminal history record; and
(B)  respond to information in the criminal history record.
(6)  If an individual described in Subsection 32A-1-702(2) is determined to be
disqualified under Subsection 32A-1-703(2)(b), the department shall provide
the individual with:
(a)  notice of the reason for the disqualification; and
(b)  an opportunity to respond to the disqualification.
(7)  The department shall maintain the following in one or more separate files
so that they may be accessed only for a purpose under Section 32A-1-703:
(a)  a fingerprint card submitted under this part; and
(b)  a criminal history record received from:
(i)  the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification; and
(ii)  the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
