32A-1-805.   General procedure for approval.
(1)  To obtain approval of the label and packaging of a malted beverage, the
manufacturer of the malted beverage shall submit an application to the
department for approval.
(2)  The application described in Subsection (1) shall be on a form approved
by the department and include the following:
(a)  a copy of a federal certificate of label approval from the Department of
Treasury, Tax and Trade Bureau, for each brand and label for which the
manufacturer is seeking approval;
(b)  a complete set of original labels for each size of container of the
malted beverage;
(c)  a description of the size of the container on which a label will be
placed;
(d)  a description of each type of container of the malted beverage; and
(e)  a description of any packaging for the malted beverage.
(3)  The department may assess a reasonable fee for reviewing a label and
packaging for approval.
(4) (a)  The department shall notify a manufacturer within 30 days after the
day on which the manufacturer submits an application whether the label and
packaging is approved or denied.
(b)  If the department determines that an unusual circumstance requires
additional time, the department may extend the time period described in
Subsection (4)(a).
(5)  A manufacturer shall obtain the approval of the department of a revision
of a previously approved label and packaging before a malted beverage using
the revised label and packaging may be distributed or sold in this state.
(6) (a)  The department may revoke a label and packaging previously approved
upon a finding that the label and packaging is not in compliance with this
title or rules of the commission.
(b)  The department shall notify the person that applies for the approval of a
label and packaging at least five business days before the day on which a
label and packaging approval is considered revoked.
(c)  After receiving notice under Subsection (6)(b), a manufacturer may
present written argument or evidence to the department on why the revocation
should not occur.
(7)  A manufacturer that applies for approval of a label and packaging may
appeal a denial or revocation of a label and packaging approval to the
commission.
