58-56-3.   Definitions.
In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:
(1) (a)  "Adopted code" means:
(i) (A)  a new edition of or amendment to an existing code, including the
standards and specifications contained in the code, adopted by the Legislature
under Section 58-56-7; and
(B)  administered by the division under Section 58-56-6; and
(ii)  adopted by a nationally recognized code authority, including:
(A)  a building code;
(B)  the National Electrical Code promulgated by the National Fire Protection
Association;
(C)  a residential one and two family dwelling code;
(D)  a plumbing code;
(E)  a mechanical code;
(F)  a fuel gas code;
(G)  an energy conservation code; and
(H)  a manufactured housing installation standard code.
(b)  "Adopted code" includes:
(i)  a fire code administered by the Fire Prevention Board under Section
53-7-204; and
(ii)  a code listed in Subsection (1)(a)(ii) that was adopted or amended by
the division and Uniform Building Code Commission or the Fire Protection Board
before May 12, 2009.
(2) (a) (i)  "Approved code" means a code, including the standards and
specifications contained in the code, approved by the division under Section
58-56-4 for use by a compliance agency; and
(ii)  administered by the division under Section 58-56-6.
(b)  "Approved code" does not include an adopted code listed under Subsection
(1)(b).
(3)  "Board" means the Fire Prevention Board created in Section 53-7-203.
(4)  "Building" means a structure used or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy and any improvements attached to it.
(5)  "Commission" means the Uniform Building Code Commission created under
this chapter.
(6)  "Compliance agency" means:
(a)  an agency of the state or any of its political subdivisions which issues
permits for construction regulated under the codes;
(b)  any other agency of the state or its political subdivisions specifically
empowered to enforce compliance with the codes; or
(c)  any other state agency which chooses to enforce codes adopted under this
chapter by authority given the agency under a title other than Title 58,
Occupations and Professions.
(7)  "Factory built housing" means manufactured homes or mobile homes.
(8) (a)  "Factory built housing set-up contractor" means an individual
licensed by the division to set up or install factory built housing on a
temporary or permanent basis.
(b)  The scope of the work included under the license includes the placement
or securing, or both placement and securing, of the factory built housing on a
permanent or temporary foundation, securing the units together if required,
and connection of the utilities to the factory built housing unit, but does
not include site preparation, construction of a permanent foundation, and
construction of utility services to the near proximity of the factory built
housing unit.
(c)  If a dealer is not licensed as a factory built housing set-up contractor,
that individual must subcontract the connection services to individuals who
are licensed by the division to perform those specific functions under Title
58, Chapter 55, Utah Construction Trades Licensing Act.
(9)  "HUD code" means the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5401 et seq.
(10)  "Legislative action" means the Legislature's:
(a)  adoption of a new adopted code;
(b)  adoption of an amendment to an existing adopted code;
(c)  repeal of an adopted code; or
(d)  repeal of a provision of an adopted code.
(11)  "Local regulator" means each political subdivision of the state which is
empowered to engage in the regulation of construction, alteration, remodeling,
building, repair, and other activities subject to the codes.
(12) (a)  "Manufactured home" means a transportable factory built housing unit
constructed on or after June 15, 1976, according to the HUD Code, in one or
more sections, which:
(i)  in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 400 or more square feet;
and
(ii)  is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and
electrical systems.
(b)  Manufactured homes constructed on or after June 15, 1976, shall be
identifiable by the manufacturer's data plate bearing the date the unit was
manufactured and a HUD label attached to the exterior of the home certifying
the home was manufactured to HUD standards.
(13)  "Mobile home" means a transportable factory built housing unit built
prior to June 15, 1976, in accordance with a state mobile home code which
existed prior to the HUD Code.
(14)  "Modular unit" means a structure built from sections which are
manufactured in accordance with the construction standards adopted pursuant to
Section 58-56-4 and transported to a building site, the purpose of which is
for human habitation, occupancy, or use.
(15)  "Opinion" means a written, nonbinding, and advisory statement issued by
the commission concerning an interpretation of the meaning of the codes or the
application of the codes in a specific circumstance issued in response to a
specific request by a party to the issue.
(16)  "State regulator" means an agency of the state which is empowered to
engage in the regulation of construction, alteration, remodeling, building,
repair, and other activities subject to the codes adopted pursuant to this
chapter.
