58-56-5.   Uniform Building Code Commission -- Composition of commission --
Commission duties and responsibilities.
(1)  There is established a Uniform Building Code Commission to advise the
division with respect to the division's responsibilities in administering the
codes under this chapter.
(2)  The commission shall be appointed by the executive director who shall
submit those nominations to the governor for confirmation or rejection.  If a
nominee is rejected, alternative names shall be submitted until confirmation
is received.  Following confirmation by the governor, the appointment is
effective.
(3)  The commission shall consist of 11 members who shall be appointed in
accordance with the following:
(a)  one member shall be from among candidates nominated by the Utah League of
Cities and Towns and the Utah Association of Counties;
(b)  one member shall be a licensed building inspector employed by a political
subdivision of the state;
(c)  one member shall be a licensed professional engineer;
(d)  one member shall be a licensed architect;
(e)  one member shall be a fire official;
(f)  three members shall be contractors licensed by the state, of which one
shall be a general contractor, one an electrical contractor, and one a
plumbing contractor;
(g)  two members shall be from the general public and have no affiliation with
the construction industry or real estate development industry; and
(h)  one member shall be from the Division of Facilities Construction
Management, Department of Administrative Services.
(4) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (4)(b), as terms of current
commission members expire, the executive director shall appoint each new
member or reappointed member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (4)(a), the executive
director shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length
of terms to ensure that the terms of commission members are staggered so that
approximately half of the commission is appointed every two years.
(5)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the executive
director shall appoint a replacement for the unexpired term.
(6)  No commission member may serve more than two full terms, and no
commission member who ceases to serve may again serve on the commission until
after the expiration of two years from the date of cessation of service.
(7)  A majority of the commission members shall constitute a quorum and may
act on behalf of the commission.
(8) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the commission at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(9) (a)  The commission shall annually designate one of its members to serve
as chair of the commission.
(b)  The division shall provide a secretary to facilitate the function of the
commission and to record its actions and recommendations.
(10)  The commission shall:
(a)  in accordance with Section 58-56-4, make a report to the Business and
Labor Interim Committee by no later than November 30 of each year;
(b)  ensure that the report includes recommendations as to whether or not the
Legislature should take legislative action, excluding any recommendations on
the fire code;
(c)  offer an opinion regarding the interpretation of or the application of an
adopted code, excluding the fire code, or an approved code if a party submits
a request for an opinion;
(d)  act as an appeals board as provided in Section 58-56-8;
(e)  establish advisory peer committees on either a standing or ad hoc basis
to advise the commission with respect to matters related to an adopted code,
excluding the fire code, or approved code, including a committee to advise the
commission regarding health matters related to the plumbing code; and
(f)  assist the division in overseeing code-related training in accordance
with Section 58-56-9.
(11)  A party requesting an opinion under Subsection (10)(c) shall submit a
formal request clearly stating:
(a)  the facts in question;
(b)  the specific code citation at issue; and
(c)  the position taken by all parties.
