58-56-7.   Code amendments -- Commission recommendations -- Division duties
and responsibilities.
(1) (a)  Subject to Subsection (1)(b), the division, in consultation with the
commission, shall establish by rule the procedure and manner under which
requests for legislative action to an adopted code shall be:
(i)  filed with the division;
(ii)  reviewed by the commission; and
(iii)  recommended by the commission to the Business and Labor Interim
Committee for legislative action in accordance with Section 58-56-5.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a), the board shall recommend legislative
action to the fire code in accordance with Section 53-7-204.
(2)  The division shall accept from any local regulators, state regulators,
state agencies involved with the construction and design of buildings, the
contractors, plumbers, or electricians licensing boards, or from recognized
construction-related associations a request for amendment to the codes under
Section 58-56-4.
(3) (a)  Except in the case of the fire code, the division may make
recommendations to the commission for legislative action.
(b)  Except in the case of the fire code, the commission may also consider
legislative action on its own initiative.
(4) (a)  On May 15 and October 15 of each calendar year, or the first
government working day after those dates if either date falls on a weekend or
government holiday, the division shall convene a public hearing, before the
commission concerning requests for legislative action to an adopted code in
accordance with Section 58-56-4.
(b)  The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of the
commission.
(5)  The commission shall, after the hearing described in Subsection (4), make
a written report of recommended amendments to be included in the commission's
report to the Business and Labor Interim Committee under Section 58-56-5.
(6)  In making rules required by this chapter, the division shall comply with
Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
