58-56-20.   Standardized building permit content.
(1)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the division shall adopt a standardized building permit form by rule.
(2) (a)  The standardized building permit form created under Subsection (1)
shall include fields for indicating the following information:
(i)  the name and address of the owner of or contractor for the project;
(ii) (A)  the address of the project; or
(B)  a general description of the project; and
(iii)  whether the permit applicant is an original contractor or owner-
builder.
(b)  The standardized building permit form created under Subsection (1) may
include any other information the division considers useful.
(3) (a)  A compliance agency shall issue a permit for construction only on a
standardized building permit form approved by the division.
(b)  A permit for construction issued by a compliance agency under Subsection
(3)(a) shall print the standardized building permit number assigned under
Section 58-56-19 in the upper right-hand corner of the building permit form in
at least 12-point type.
(c) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(c)(ii), a compliance agency may
not issue a permit for construction if the information required by Subsection
(2)(a) is not completed on the building permit form.
(ii)  If a compliance agency does not issue a separate permit for different
aspects of the same project, the compliance agency may issue a permit for
construction without the information required by Subsection (2)(a)(iii).
(d)  A compliance agency may require additional information for the issuance
of a permit for construction.
(4)  A local regulator issuing a single-family residential building permit
application shall include in the application or attach to the building permit
the following notice prominently placed in at least 14-point font: "Decisions
relative to this application are subject to review by the chief executive
officer of the municipal or county entity issuing the single-family
residential building permit and appeal under the International Residential
Code as adopted by the Legislature."
