31A-5-212.   Certificate of authority.
(1)  The corporation may apply for a certificate of authority at any time
prior to the expiration of its organization permit.  The application shall
include a detailed statement by a principal officer about any material changes
that have taken place or are likely to take place in the facts on which the
issuance of the organization permit was based, and if any material changes are
proposed in the business plan, the information about the changes that would be
required if an organization permit were being applied for.
(2) (a)  The commissioner shall issue a certificate of authority if the
commissioner finds:
(i)  enough cash or property authorized under Subsection 31A-5-207(1)(a) or
(2)(a) has been received to satisfy the requirements of Section 31A-5-211;
(ii)  there is no basis for revoking the organization permit under Subsection
31A-5-209(2); and
(iii)  all other applicable requirements of the law have been met.
(b)  The certificate of authority shall specify any limits placed on the
insurance business the corporation may carry on and may, within the powers
given the commissioner under this title, specify limits on the corporation's
methods of operation.
(3)  After the issuance of the certificate of authority the following action
shall take place:
(a)  The board shall authorize and direct the issuance of certificates for
shares, bonds, or notes subscribed to under the organization permit, and of
insurance policies upon qualifying applications obtained under the
organization permit.
(b)  The commissioner shall authorize the release to the corporation of all
funds held in escrow under Section 31A-5-208.
(4) (a)  A corporation may apply to the commissioner for a new or amended
certificate of authority altering limits on its business or methods of
operation.  The application shall contain or be accompanied by information in
Subsection 31A-5-204(2) as the commissioner reasonably requires.  The
commissioner shall issue the new certificate if the commissioner finds:
(i)  the corporation's capital and surplus satisfy the requirements of Section
31A-5-211 as to the operations proposed under the new certificate of
authority; and
(ii)  the proposed business would not be contrary to law or to the interests
of insureds or the public.
(b)  If the commissioner issues an order under Chapter 27, Part 5,
Administrative Actions, against a corporation, the commissioner may also
revoke the corporation's certificate and issue a new one with any limitation
the commissioner considers necessary.
(5)  Except as to Subsection (4), this section does not apply to stock or
mutual insurance corporations already in existence on July 1, 1986.
