31A-5-217.5.   Variable contract law.
(1)  This section applies to all separate accounts that are used to support
any one or more of the following:
(a)  variable life insurance policies that satisfy the requirements of Section
817, Internal Revenue Code;
(b)  variable annuity contracts, including modified guaranteed annuities; or
(c)  benefits under plans governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974.
(2)  In the event of a conflict between this section and any other section of
this title as it relates to these accounts, this section prevails.
(3)  A domestic life insurance company may establish one or more separate
accounts, and may allocate to those accounts amounts, which include proceeds
applied under optional modes of settlement or under dividend options, to
provide for life insurance or annuities, and benefits incidental to life
insurance or annuities, payable in fixed or variable amounts or both, subject
to the following:
(a)  The income, gains, and losses, realized or unrealized, from assets
allocated to a separate account shall be credited to or charged against the
account, without regard to other income, gains, or losses of the company.
(b)  Except as may be provided with respect to reserves for guaranteed
benefits and funds referred to in Subsection (c):
(i)  amounts allocated to any separate account and accumulations on such
amounts may be invested and reinvested without regard to any requirements or
limitations prescribed by the laws of this state governing the investments of
life insurance companies; and
(ii)  the investments in any such separate account may not be taken into
account in applying the investment limitations that  otherwise apply to the
investments of the company.
(c)  Except with the approval of the commissioner and under any conditions as
to investments and other matters as he may prescribe, which shall recognize
the guaranteed nature of the benefits provided, reserves for benefits
guaranteed as to dollar amount and duration, and funds guaranteed as to
principal amount or stated rate of interest may not be maintained in a
separate account.
(d)  Unless otherwise approved by the commissioner, assets allocated to a
separate account shall be valued at their market value on the date of
valuation, or if there is no readily available market, then as provided under
the terms of the contract or the rules or other written agreement that applies
to the separate account.  However, unless otherwise approved by the
commissioner, the portion of any of the assets of the separate account equal
to the company's reserve liability with regard to the guaranteed benefits and
funds referred to in Subsection (c) shall be valued in accordance with the
rules that otherwise apply to the company's assets.
(e)  Amounts allocated to a separate account in the exercise of the power
granted by this section shall be owned by the company, and the company may not
be, nor hold itself out to be, a trustee with respect to those amounts.  If,
and to the extent provided under the applicable contracts, that portion of the
assets of any separate account that is equal to the reserves and other
contract liabilities with respect to the account may not be chargeable with
liabilities arising out of any other business the company may conduct.
(f)  A sale, exchange, or other transfer of assets may not be made by a
company between any of its separate accounts or between any other investment
account and one or more of its separate accounts unless, in case of a transfer
into a separate account, the transfer is made solely to establish the account
or to support the operation of the contracts with respect to the separate
account to which the transfer is made, and unless the transfer, whether into
or from a separate account, is made by a transfer of cash, or by a transfer of
securities having a readily determinable market value, if the transfer of
securities is approved by the commissioner.  The commissioner may approve
other transfers among such accounts if, in his opinion, the transfers would
not be inequitable.
(g)  To the extent a company considers it necessary to comply with any
applicable federal or state laws, the company, with respect to any separate
account, including any separate account which is a management investment
company or a unit investment trust, may provide for persons having an interest
in the account appropriate voting and other rights and special procedures for
the conduct of the business of the account, including special rights and
procedures relating to investment policy, investment advisory services,
selection of independent public accountants, and the selection of a committee,
the members of which need not be otherwise affiliated with the company, to
manage the business of the account.
(4)  Any contract providing benefits payable in variable amounts delivered or
issued for delivery in this state shall contain a statement of the essential
features of the procedures to be followed by the insurance company in
determining the dollar amount of the variable benefits.  Any contract under
which the benefits vary to reflect investment experience, including a group
contract and any certificate in evidence of variable benefits issued under a
group contract, shall state that the dollar amount will vary according to
investment experience.  The contract shall contain on its first page a
statement to the effect that the benefits under the contract are on a variable
basis.
(5) (a)  A company may not deliver or issue for delivery within this state
variable contracts unless it is licensed or organized to do a life insurance
or annuity business in this state, and the commissioner is satisfied that its
condition or method of operation in connection with the issuance of such
contracts will not render its operation hazardous to the public or its
policyholders in this state.  In this connection, the commissioner shall
consider among other things:
(i)  the history and financial condition of the company;
(ii)  the character, responsibility, and fitness of the officers and directors
of the company; and
(iii) (A)  the law and regulation under which the company is authorized in the
state of domicile to issue variable contracts.
(B)  The state of entry of an alien company shall be considered its place of
domicile for the purposes of Subsection (iii)(A).
(b)  If the company is a subsidiary of an admitted life insurance company, or
affiliated with such a company through common management or ownership, it may
be considered by the commissioner to have met the provisions of this section
if either it or the parent or the affiliated company meets the requirements of
this section.
(6)  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the commissioner shall have
sole authority to regulate the issuance and sale of variable contracts, and to
make rules necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes and provisions
of this chapter.
(7) (a)  Except for Sections 31A-22-402, 31A-22-407, and 31A-22-409, in the
case of a variable annuity contract and Sections 31A-22-402, 31A-22-407, and
31A-22-408 in the case of a variable life insurance policy, and except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, all pertinent provisions of this title
apply to separate accounts and contracts relating to the separate accounts.
Any individual variable life insurance contract, delivered or issued for
delivery in this state shall contain grace, reinstatement, and nonforfeiture
provisions appropriate to the contract.
(b)  The reserve liability for variable contracts shall be established in
accordance with actuarial procedures that recognize the variable nature of the
benefits provided and any mortality guarantees.
