31A-5-303.   Insider trading of securities.
(1)  Every person who is directly or indirectly the beneficial owner of more
than 10% of any class of any equity security of a domestic stock insurance
corporation, or who is a director or officer of a domestic stock corporation,
shall file with the commissioner within ten days after he becomes a beneficial
owner, director, or officer, and within ten days after the close of any
following calendar month in which there has been a change in his ownership or
office, a statement in a form prescribed by the commissioner, of his office
and of all the equity securities of the company which he beneficially owns,
and of all the changes in either.  The commissioner may accept a copy of a
similar statement filed with another regulatory authority in satisfaction of
this subsection's requirement.
(2)  To prevent the unfair use of information which may have been obtained by
a beneficial owner, director, or officer because of his relationship to the
corporation, any profit realized by him from the purchase and sale or sale and
purchase of any equity security of the corporation within any period of less
than six months, unless the security was acquired in good faith in connection
with a debt previously contracted, is recoverable by the corporation.  This
recovery may be made in spite of any intention by the beneficial owner,
director, or officer in entering into the transaction to hold the security
purchased or not to repurchase the security sold for a period exceeding six
months.  A suit to recover the profit may be instituted in any court of
competent jurisdiction by the corporation.  If the corporation fails to bring
suit within 60 days after request by the owner of a security of the
corporation or if the corporation fails to prosecute it diligently, the owner
of any security of the corporation may bring suit or prosecute the action in
the name and on behalf of the corporation.  This suit may not be brought more
than two years after the date the profit was realized.  This subsection does
not apply to any transaction where the beneficial owner was not a beneficial
owner both at the time of the purchase and sale, or the sale and purchase, of
the security involved, nor does it apply to any transaction which the
commissioner, by rule, exempts as not within the purpose of this subsection.
(3) (a)  A dealer in the ordinary course of his business and incident to his
establishment or maintenance of a primary or secondary market for the security
other than on an exchange as defined in the federal Securities Exchange Act of
1934, is not governed by Subsection (2) regarding a purchase and sale or sale
and purchase.  The commissioner may by rule define terms and prescribe
conditions regarding securities held in an investment account and transactions
made in the ordinary course of business and incident to the establishment or
maintenance of a primary or secondary market.
(b)  Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to foreign or domestic arbitrage
transactions unless made in contravention of rules the commissioner adopts to
carry out this section.
(c)  Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to equity securities of a
corporation if:
(i)  the securities are registered, or are required to be registered, under
Section 12 of the federal Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; or
(ii)  the corporation did not have any class of its equity securities held of
record by 100 or more persons on the last business day of the year preceding
the year in which equity securities of the corporation would otherwise be
subject to Subsections (1) and (2).
(4)  No person may, in contravention of rules the commissioner adopts for the
protection of investors or the public, solicit or permit the use of his name
to solicit a proxy, consent, or authorization regarding an equity security of
a domestic stock corporation having 100 or more shareholders of record.
(5)  No provision of this section imposing liability applies to an act done or
omitted in good faith in conformity with any rule of the commissioner.
Liability does not apply even if the rule is amended, rescinded, or determined
by judicial or other authority to be invalid after the act or omission.
(6)  As used in this section, "equity security" means any stock or similar
security; any security convertible, with or without consideration, into stock
or a similar security; carrying any warrant or right to subscribe to or
purchase stock or a similar security; any such warrant or right; or any other
security which the commissioner considers to be of similar nature and
designates as an equity security by rules promulgated in the public interest
or for the protection of investors.
