31A-5-411.   Continuity of management in emergencies.
(1)  If an emergency is caused by an attack on the United States or by a
nuclear or other disaster which makes it impracticable for a corporation to
conduct its business in strict accord with applicable provisions of law, its
articles, bylaws, or its charter, this section facilitates the continued
operation of a domestic insurance corporation.
(2)  The board of any corporation may adopt emergency bylaws, subject to
repeal or change by action of those having power to adopt regular bylaws.
These bylaws shall operate during a national emergency. Notwithstanding any
different provisions in the regular bylaws, the applicable statutes, or the
corporation's articles or charter, these emergency bylaws may make any
provision that is reasonably necessary for operation during the emergency.
(3)  If the board of a corporation has not adopted emergency bylaws, the
following provisions are effective in a national emergency:
(a)  Three directors constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at
all meetings of the board.
(b)  A vacancy on the board may be filled by a majority of the remaining
directors, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.
(c) (i)  If there are no surviving directors, but at least three officers of
the corporation survive, the three officers with the longest term of service
become the directors and possess all of the powers of the previous board and
the powers that are granted under this section.  The emergency board may elect
other directors by a majority vote.
(ii)  If there are not three surviving officers, the commissioner shall
appoint three natural persons, including any surviving officers, as directors.
They shall possess all of the powers of the previous board and any powers
granted under this section.  The emergency board may elect other directors by
majority vote.
(4)  The board of a corporation may, by resolution adopted by the board,
provide that in the event of a national emergency and in the event of the
death or incapacity of specified officers of the corporation, those officers
shall be succeeded by the persons described in a succession list.  The list
may name persons or position titles.  It shall establish the order of
priority, successors in office, and it may prescribe the conditions for
exercise of the powers of the office.
(5)  The board of a corporation may, by resolution, provide that in a national
emergency the home office or principal place of business is a location named
in the resolution.  The resolution may provide for alternate locations and
establish an order of preference.
