32A-14a-102 (Superseded 01/01/10).   Liability for injuries and damage
resulting from distribution of alcoholic beverages -- Causes of action --
Statute of limitations -- Employee protections.
(1) (a)  Except as provided in Section 32A-14a-103, a person described in
Subsection (1)(b) is liable for:
(i)  any and all injury and damage, except punitive damages to:
(A)  any third person; or
(B)  the heir, as defined in Section 78B-3-105, of that third person; or
(ii)  for the death of a third person.
(b)  A person is liable under Subsection (1)(a) if:
(i)  the person directly gives, sells, or otherwise provides an alcoholic
beverage:
(A)  to a person described in Subsection (1)(b)(ii); and
(B)  as part of the commercial sale, storage, service, manufacture,
distribution, or consumption of alcoholic products;
(ii)  those actions cause the intoxication of:
(A)  any individual under the age of 21 years;
(B)  any individual who is apparently under the influence of intoxicating
alcoholic products or drugs;
(C)  any individual whom the person furnishing the alcoholic beverage knew or
should have known from the circumstances was under the influence of
intoxicating alcoholic beverages or products or drugs; or
(D)  any individual who is a known interdicted person; and
(iii)  the injury or death described in Subsection (1)(a) results from the
intoxication of the individual who is provided the alcoholic beverage.
(2) (a)  A person 21 years of age or older who is described in Subsection
(2)(b) is liable for:
(i) any and all injury and damage, except punitive damages to:
(A)  any third person; or
(B)  the heir, as defined in Section 78B-3-105, of that third person; or
(ii)  for the death of the third person.
(b)  A person is liable under Subsection (2)(a) if:
(i)  that person directly gives or otherwise provides an alcoholic beverage to
an individual who the person knows or should have known is under the age of 21
years;
(ii)  those actions caused the intoxication of the individual provided the
alcoholic beverage;
(iii)  the injury or death described in Subsection (2)(a) results from the
intoxication of the individual who is provided the alcoholic beverage; and
(iv)  the person is not liable under Subsection (1), because the person did
not directly give or provide the alcoholic beverage as part of the commercial
sale, storage, service, manufacture, distribution, or consumption of alcoholic
products.
(3)  Except for a violation of Subsection (2), an employer is liable for the
actions of its employees in violation of this chapter.
(4)  A person who suffers an injury under Subsection (1) or (2) has a cause of
action against the person who provided the alcoholic beverage in violation of
Subsection (1) or (2).
(5)  If a person having rights or liabilities under this chapter dies, the
rights or liabilities provided by this chapter survive to or against that
person's estate.
(6)  The total amount that may be awarded to any person pursuant to a cause of
action for injury and damage under this chapter that arises after January 1,
1998, is limited to $500,000 and the aggregate amount which may be awarded to
all persons injured as a result of one occurrence is limited to $1,000,000.
(7)  An action based upon a cause of action under this chapter shall be
commenced within two years after the date of the injury and damage.
(8) (a)  Nothing in this chapter precludes any cause of action or additional
recovery against the person causing the injury.
(b)  Any cause of action or additional recovery against the person causing the
injury and damage, which action is not brought under this chapter, is exempt
from the damage cap in Subsection (6).
(c) Any cause of action brought under this chapter is exempt from Sections
78B-5-817 through 78B-5-823.
(9)  This section does not apply to a business licensed under Chapter 10, Part
1, General Provisions, to sell beer at retail only for off-premise
consumption.
