26-18-101.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Appropriate and medically necessary" means, regarding drug prescribing, dispensing, and patient usage, that it is in conformity with the criteria and standards developed in accordance with this part.

(2)  "Board" means the Drug Utilization Review Board created in Section 26-18-102.

(3)  "Compendia" means resources widely accepted by the medical profession in the efficacious use of drugs, including "American Hospital Formulary Services Drug Information," "U.S. Pharmacopeia - Drug Information," "A.M.A. Drug Evaluations," peer-reviewed medical literature, and information provided by manufacturers of drug products.

(4)  "Counseling" means the activities conducted by a pharmacist to inform Medicaid recipients about the proper use of drugs, as required by the board under this part.

(5)  "Criteria" means those predetermined and explicitly accepted elements used to measure drug use on an ongoing basis in order to determine if the use is appropriate, medically necessary, and not likely to result in adverse medical outcomes.

(6)  "Drug-disease contraindications" means that the therapeutic effect of a drug is adversely altered by the presence of another disease condition.

(7)  "Drug-interactions" means that two or more drugs taken by a recipient lead to clinically significant toxicity that is characteristic of one or any of the drugs present, or that leads to interference with the effectiveness of one or any of the drugs.

(8)  "Drug Utilization Review" or "DUR" means the program designed to measure and assess, on a retrospective and prospective basis, the proper use of outpatient drugs in the Medicaid program.

(9)  "Intervention" means a form of communication utilized by the board with a prescriber or pharmacist to inform about or influence prescribing or dispensing practices.

(10)  "Overutilization" or "underutilization" means the use of a drug in such quantities that the desired therapeutic goal is not achieved.

(11)  "Pharmacist" means a person licensed in this state to engage in the practice of pharmacy under Title 58, Chapter 17b, Pharmacy Practice Act.

(12)  "Physician" means a person licensed in this state to practice medicine and surgery under  Section 58-67-301 or osteopathic medicine under Section 58-68-301.

(13)  "Prospective DUR" means that part of the drug utilization review program that occurs before a drug is dispensed, and that is designed to screen for potential drug therapy problems based on explicit and predetermined criteria and standards.

(14)  "Retrospective DUR" means that part of the drug utilization review program that assesses or measures drug use based on an historical review of drug use data against predetermined and explicit criteria and standards, on an ongoing basis with professional input.

(15)  "Standards" means the acceptable range of deviation from the criteria that reflects local medical practice and that is tested on the Medicaid recipient database.

(16)  "SURS" means the Surveillance Utilization Review System of the Medicaid program.

(17)  "Therapeutic appropriateness" means drug prescribing and dispensing based on rational drug therapy that is consistent with criteria and standards.

(18)  "Therapeutic duplication" means prescribing and dispensing the same drug or two or more drugs from the same therapeutic class where periods of drug administration overlap and where that practice is not medically indicated.



Amended by Chapter 280, 2004 General Session

