26-18-102.   DUR Board -- Creation and membership -- Expenses.
(1)  There is created a 12-member Drug Utilization Review Board responsible
for implementation of a retrospective and prospective DUR program.
(2)  (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), as terms of current board
members expire, the executive director shall appoint each new member or
reappointed member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the executive
director shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length
of terms to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that
approximately half of the board is appointed every two years.
(c)  Persons appointed to the board may be reappointed upon completion of
their terms, but may not serve more than two consecutive terms.
(d)  The executive director shall provide for geographic balance in
representation on the board.
(3)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(4)  The membership shall be comprised of the following:
(a)  four physicians who are actively engaged in the practice of medicine or
osteopathic medicine in this state, to be selected from a list of nominees
provided by the Utah Medical Association;
(b)  one physician in this state who is actively engaged in academic medicine;
(c)  three pharmacists who are actively practicing in retail pharmacy in this
state, to be selected from a list of nominees provided by the Utah
Pharmaceutical Association;
(d)  one pharmacist who is actively engaged in academic pharmacy;
(e)  one person who shall represent consumers;
(f)  one person who shall represent pharmaceutical manufacturers, to be
recommended by the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association; and
(g)  one dentist licensed to practice in this state under Title 58, Chapter
69, Dentists and Dental Hygienists Act, who is actively engaged in the
practice of dentistry, nominated by the Utah Dental Association.
(5)  Physician and pharmacist members of the board shall have expertise in
clinically appropriate prescribing and dispensing of outpatient drugs.
(6)  The board shall elect a chair from among its members who shall serve a
one-year term, and may serve consecutive terms.
(7)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
