53-2-403.   State Disaster Recovery Restricted Account.
(1) (a)  There is created a restricted account in the General Fund known as
the "State Disaster Recovery Restricted Account."
(b)  The disaster recovery fund shall consist of:
(i)  monies deposited into the disaster recovery fund in accordance with
Section 63J-1-314;
(ii)  monies appropriated to the disaster recovery fund by the Legislature;
and
(iii)  any other public or private monies received by the division that are:
(A)  given to the division for purposes consistent with this section; and
(B)  deposited into the disaster recovery fund at the request of:
(I)  the division; or
(II)  the person giving the monies.
(c)  The Division of Finance shall deposit interest or other earnings derived
from investment of fund monies into the General Fund.
(d)  Monies in the disaster recovery fund may only be used as follows:
(i)  without the monies being appropriated by the Legislature, in any fiscal
year the division may use $100,000 to fund, in accordance with Section
53-2-404, costs to the state of emergency disaster services in response to a
declared disaster;
(ii)  subject to being appropriated by the Legislature, monies not described
in Subsection (1)(d)(i) may be used to fund costs to the state directly
related to a declared disaster that are not costs related to:
(A)  emergency disaster services;
(B)  emergency preparedness; or
(C)  notwithstanding whether or not a county participates in the Wildland Fire
Suppression Fund created in Section 65A-8-204, any fire suppression or
presuppression costs that may be paid for from the Wildland Fire Suppression
Fund if the county participates in the Wildland Fire Suppression Fund; and
(iii)  for fiscal years 2009 and 2010 only, to address a General Fund budget
deficit as defined in Section 63J-1-312.
(2)  The state treasurer shall invest monies in the disaster recovery fund
according to Title 51, Chapter 7, State Money Management Act.
(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1), the monies in the disaster
recovery fund may not be diverted, appropriated, or used for a purpose that is
not listed in this section.
(b)  Notwithstanding Section 63J-1-410, the Legislature may not appropriate
monies from the disaster recovery fund to eliminate or otherwise reduce an
operating deficit if the monies appropriated from the disaster recovery fund
are used for a purpose other than one listed in this section.
(c)  The Legislature may not amend the purposes for which monies in the
disaster recovery fund may be used except by the affirmative vote of two-
thirds of all the members elected to each house.
