59-2-108.   Depreciation schedule for certain taxable tangible personal
property.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a) (i)  "Acquisition cost" means all costs required to put an item of
tangible personal property into service; and
(ii)  includes:
(A)  the purchase price for a new or used item;
(B)  the cost of freight and shipping;
(C)  the cost of installation, engineering, erection, or assembly; and
(D)  sales and use taxes.
(b)  "Expensed personal property" means an item of taxable tangible personal
property that:
(i)  has an acquisition cost of $1,000 or less; and
(ii)  a person elects to have assessed according to a schedule described in
Subsection (4).
(c) (i)  "Item of taxable tangible personal property" does not include an
improvement to real property or a part that will become an improvement.
(ii)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the commission may make rules defining the term "item of taxable tangible
personal property."
(d) (i)  "Short life expensed personal property" means expensed personal
property that is the same type as the following personal property:
(A)  short life property;
(B)  short life trade fixtures; or
(C)  computer hardware.
(ii)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the commission may make rules defining the following terms:
(A)  "short life property";
(B)  "short life trade fixtures"; and
(C)  "computer hardware."
(e)  "Taxable tangible personal property" means tangible personal property
that is subject to taxation under this chapter.
(2) (a)  A person may elect to designate taxable tangible personal property as
expensed personal property.
(b)  A county shall not require a person to:
(i)  itemize expensed personal property on the signed statement described in
Section 59-2-306; and
(ii)  track expensed personal property.
(c)  If a taxpayer's expensed personal property is audited in accordance with
Subsection 59-2-306(3), a taxpayer shall provide proof of the acquisition cost
of the expensed personal property.
(3) (a)  An election to designate taxable tangible personal property as
expensed personal property under this section may not be revoked.
(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(d), if an item of taxable tangible
personal property is designated as expensed personal property, the person must
pay taxes according to the taxable value determined by the schedule for a term
designated by a schedule described in Subsection (4).
(c)  If a person sells or otherwise disposes of an item of expensed personal
property prior to the time period described in Subsection (3)(b) or (d), the
person shall continue to pay taxes according to the schedule described in
Subsection (4).
(d)  If a person elects to designate an item of taxable tangible personal
property acquired before December 31, 2008, as expensed personal property at a
time after the first year after the item is acquired, the person must pay
taxes according to the taxable value determined by the schedule for a time
period that equals:
(i)  the time period designated in Subsection (3)(b); less
(ii)  the time period beginning when the person acquired the item of expensed
personal property and ending when the person designated the item as short life
expensed personal property.
(e)  If a person elects to designate taxable tangible personal property as
expensed personal property in accordance with Subsection (2)(a), the person
may not appeal the values described in Subsection (4).
(4) (a)  For the taxable year beginning on January 1, 2009 and ending on
December 31, 2009, the taxable value of short life expensed personal property
is calculated by applying the percent good factor against the acquisition cost
of the property as follows:
Short Life Expensed Personal Property Schedule
Year of                                         Percent Good of
Acquisition                                             Acquisition Cost
2008                                                            69%
2007                                                            52%
2006                                                            30%
2005                                                            17%
2004                                                            11%
(b)  For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2010, the taxable
value of short life expensed personal property shall be assessed according to
a schedule developed by the commission in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter
3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
