59-2-201.   Assessment by commission -- Determination of value of mining
property -- Notification of assessment -- Local assessment of property
assessed by the unitary method.
(1) (a)  By May 1 of each year the following property, unless otherwise exempt
under the Utah Constitution or under Part 11, Exemptions, Deferrals, and
Abatements, shall be assessed by the commission at 100% of fair market value,
as valued on January 1, in accordance with this chapter:
(i)  except as provided in Subsection (2), all property which operates as a
unit across county lines, if the values must be apportioned among more than
one county or state;
(ii)  all property of public utilities;
(iii)  all operating property of an airline, air charter service, and air
contract service;
(iv)  all geothermal fluids and geothermal resources;
(v)  all mines and mining claims except in cases, as determined by the
commission, where the mining claims are used for other than mining purposes,
in which case the value of mining claims used for other than mining purposes
shall be assessed by the assessor of the county in which the mining claims are
located; and
(vi)  all machinery used in mining, all property or surface improvements upon
or appurtenant to mines or mining claims.  For the purposes of assessment and
taxation, all processing plants, mills, reduction works, and smelters which
are primarily used by the owner of a mine or mining claim for processing,
reducing, or smelting minerals taken from a mine or mining claim shall be
considered appurtenant to that mine or mining claim, regardless of actual
location.
(b) (i)  For purposes of Subsection (1)(a)(iii), operating property of an air
charter service does not include an aircraft that is:
(A)  used by the air charter service for air charter; and
(B)  owned by a person other than the air charter service.
(ii)  For purposes of this Subsection (1)(b):
(A)  "person" means a natural person, individual, corporation, organization,
or other legal entity; and
(B)  a person does not qualify as a person other than the air charter service
as described in Subsection (1)(b)(i)(B) if the person is:
(I)  a principal, owner, or member of the air charter service; or
(II)  a legal entity that has a principal, owner, or member of the air charter
service as a principal, owner, or member of the legal entity.
(2)  The commission shall assess and collect property tax on state-assessed
commercial vehicles at the time of original registration or annual renewal.
(a)  The commission shall assess and collect property tax annually on state-
assessed commercial vehicles which are registered pursuant to Section
41-1a-222 or 41-1a-228.
(b)  State-assessed commercial vehicles brought into the state which are
required to be registered in Utah shall, as a condition of registration, be
subject to ad valorem tax unless all property taxes or fees imposed by the
state of origin have been paid for the current calendar year.
(c)  Real property, improvements, equipment, fixtures, or other personal
property in this state owned by the company shall be assessed separately by
the local county assessor.
(d)  The commission shall adjust the value of state-assessed commercial
vehicles as necessary to comply with 49 U.S.C. Sec. 14502, and the commission
shall direct the county assessor to apply the same adjustment to any personal
property, real property, or improvements owned by the company and used
directly and exclusively in their commercial vehicle activities.
(3)  The method for determining the fair market value of productive mining
property is the capitalized net revenue method or any other valuation method
the commission believes, or the taxpayer demonstrates to the commission's
satisfaction, to be reasonably determinative of the fair market value of the
mining property.  The rate of capitalization applicable to mines shall be
determined by the commission, consistent with a fair rate of return expected
by an investor in light of that industry's current market, financial, and
economic conditions.  In no event may the fair market value of the mining
property be less than the fair market value of the land, improvements, and
tangible personal property upon or appurtenant to the mining property.
(4)  Immediately following the assessment, the owner or operator of the
assessed property shall be notified of the assessment by certified mail.  The
assessor of the county in which the property is located shall also be
immediately notified of the assessment by certified mail.
(5)  Property assessed by the unitary method, which is not necessary to the
conduct and does not contribute to the income of the business as determined by
the commission, shall be assessed separately by the local county assessor.
(6) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (6)(b), for calendar years beginning
on or after January 1, 2009 and ending on or before December 31, 2010, the
method for determining the fair market value of an aircraft, aircraft type, or
mobile flight equipment assessed under this part is equal to:
(i)  the value referenced in the Used Price for Avg Acft Wholesale column of
the Airliner Price Guide by make, model, series, and year of manufacture;
minus
(ii)  20% of the value described in Subsection (6)(a)(i).
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (6)(a), for calendar years beginning on or
after January 1, 2009 and ending on or before December 1, 2010, the method for
determining the fair market value of an aircraft not listed in the Airliner
Price Guide is equal to:
(i)  the value references in the Average Wholesale column of the Aircraft
Bluebook Price Digest by make, model, series, and year of manufacture; minus
(ii)  20% of the value described in Subsection (6)(b)(i).
