59-2-303.1.   Mandatory cyclical appraisals.
(1)  For purposes of this section:
(a)  "Corrective action" includes:
(i)  factoring pursuant to Section 59-2-704;
(ii)  notifying the state auditor that the county failed to comply with the
requirements of this section; or
(iii)  filing a petition for a court order requiring a county to take action.
(b)  "Mass appraisal system" means a computer assisted mass appraisal system
that:
(i)  a county assessor uses to value real property; and
(ii)  includes at least the following system features:
(A)  has the ability to update all parcels of real property located within the
county each year;
(B)  can be programmed with specialized criteria;
(C)  provides uniform and equal treatment of parcels within the same class of
real property throughout the county; and
(D)  annually updates all parcels of residential real property within the
county using accepted valuation methodologies as determined by rule.
(c)  "Property review date" means the date a county assessor completes a
detailed review of the property characteristics of a parcel of real property
in accordance with Subsection (3)(a).
(2) (a)  The county assessor shall annually update property values of property
as provided in Section 59-2-301 based on a systematic review of current market
data.
(b)  The county assessor of a county of the first or second class shall
conduct the annual update described in Subsection (2)(a) by using a mass
appraisal system on or before the following:
(i)  for a county of the first class, January 1, 2009; and
(ii)  for a county of the second class, January 1, 2011.
(c)  The county assessor and the commission shall jointly certify that the
county's mass appraisal system meets the requirements:
(i)  described in Subsection (1)(b); and
(ii)  of the commission.
(3) (a)  In addition to the requirements in Subsection (2), the county
assessor shall complete a detailed review of property characteristics for each
property at least once every five years.
(b)  The county assessor shall maintain on the county's computer system, a
record of the last property review date for each parcel of real property
located within the county assessor's county.
(4) (a)  The commission shall take corrective action if the commission
determines that:
(i)  a county assessor has not satisfactorily followed the current mass
appraisal standards, as provided by law;
(ii)  the sales-assessment ratio, coefficients of dispersion, or other
statistical measures of appraisal performance related to the studies required
by Section 59-2-704 are not within the standards provided by law; or
(iii)  the county assessor has failed to comply with the requirements of this
section.
(b)  If a county assessor fails to comply with the requirements of this
section for one year, the commission shall assist the county assessor in
fulfilling the requirements of Subsections (2) and (3).
(c)  If a county assessor fails to comply with the requirements of this
section for two consecutive years, the county will lose the county's
allocation of the revenue generated statewide from the imposition of the
multicounty assessing and collecting levy authorized in Sections 59-2-1602 and
59-2-1603.
(d)  If a county loses its allocation of the revenue generated statewide from
the imposition of the multicounty assessing and collecting levy described in
Subsection (4)(c), the revenue the county would have received shall:
(i)  be retained in the Property Tax Valuation Agency Fund for that calendar
year; and
(ii)  be distributed the following calendar year in accordance with Section
59-2-1603.
(5) (a)  On or before July 1, 2008, the county assessor shall prepare a five-
year plan to comply with the requirements of Subsections (2) and (3).
(b)  The plan shall be available in the county assessor's office for review by
the public upon request.
(c)  The plan shall be annually reviewed and revised as necessary.
(6) (a)  A county assessor shall create, maintain, and regularly update a
database containing the following information that the county assessor may use
to enhance the county's ability to accurately appraise and assess property on
an annual basis:
(i)  fee and other appraisals;
(ii)  property characteristics and features;
(iii)  property surveys;
(iv)  sales data; and
(v)  any other data or information on sales, studies, transfers, changes to
property, or property characteristics.
(b)  A county assessor shall submit a report to the commission on or before
September 1 stating the progress of the county assessor to meet the
requirements of Subsection (6)(a).
(c)  The commission shall report to the Revenue and Taxation Interim Committee
on or before the October interim meeting concerning the information received
from the county assessors pursuant to Subsection (6)(b).
