59-2-307.   Refusal by taxpayer to file signed statement -- Penalty --
Assessor to estimate value -- Reporting information to other counties.
(1) (a)  Each person who fails to file the signed statement required by
Section 59-2-306, fails to file the signed statement with respect to name and
place of residence, or fails to appear and testify when requested by the
assessor, shall pay a penalty equal to 10% of the estimated tax due, but not
less than $100 for each failure to file a signed and completed statement.
(b)  Each penalty under Subsection (1)(a) shall be collected in the manner
provided by Sections 59-2-1302 and 59-2-1303, except as otherwise provided for
in this section, or by a judicial proceeding brought in the name of the
assessor.
(c)  All money recovered by any assessor under this section shall be paid into
the county treasury.
(2) (a)  The penalty imposed by Subsection (1)(a) may not be waived or reduced
by the assessor, county, county Board of Equalization, or commission except
pursuant to a procedure for the review and approval of reductions and waivers
adopted by county ordinance, or by administrative rule adopted in accordance
with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(b) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b)(ii), a penalty under
Subsection (1)(a) may be imposed on or after May 16 of the year the statement
described in Section 59-2-306 is requested by the county assessor.
(ii)  A penalty under Subsection (1)(a) may not be imposed until 30 days after
the postmark date of mailing of a subsequent notice if the signed statement
described in Section 59-2-306 is requested:
(A)  on or after March 16; or
(B)  by a county assessor of a county of the first class.
(3) (a)  If an owner neglects or refuses to file a signed statement requested
by an assessor as required under Section 59-2-306:
(i)  the assessor shall:
(A)  make a record of the failure to file; and
(B)  make an estimate of the value of the property of the owner based on known
facts and circumstances; and
(ii)  the assessor of a county of the first class:
(A)  shall make a subsequent request by mail for the signed statement,
informing the owner of the consequences of not filing a signed statement; and
(B)  may impose a fee for the actual and necessary expenses of the mailing
under Subsection (3)(a)(ii)(A).
(b)  The value fixed by the assessor in accordance with Subsection (3)(a)(i)
may not be reduced by the county board of equalization or by the commission.
(4)  If the signed statement discloses property in any other county, the
assessor shall file the signed statement and send a copy to the assessor of
each county in which the property is located.
