59-2-402.   Proportional assessment of transitory personal property brought from outside state -- Exemptions -- Reporting requirements -- Penalty for failure to file report -- Claims for rebates and adjustments.

(1)  If any taxable transitory personal property, other than property exempted under Subsection (2), is brought into the state at any time after the assessment date, a proportional assessment shall be made in accordance with rules adopted by the commission based upon the length of time that the property is in the state, but in no event may the minimum assessment be less than 25% of the full year's assessment.

(2)  The following property is exempt from proportional assessment under Subsection (1) for the year in which the license fee or tax is paid:

(a)  property acquired during the calendar year;

(b)  registered motor vehicles with a gross laden weight of 27,000 pounds or less;

(c)  vehicles that are registered and licensed in another state;

(d)  property subject to the provisions of Subsection 59-2-405(4);

(e)  state-assessed commercial vehicles; and

(f)  a motor home that is:

(i)  brought into the state for the sole purpose of selling the motor home to a licensed dealer; and

(ii)  purchased for resale by a person licensed as a dealer under Section 41-3-201.

(3)  If any taxable transitory personal property is brought into the state at any time during the year, the owner of the property, or the owner's agent, shall immediately secure a personal property report form from the assessor, complete it in all pertinent respects, sign it, and file it with the assessor of the county in which the property is located.

(4)  If the owner of the taxable transitory personal property, or the owner's agent, fails to secure, complete, and file a personal property report form with the county assessor, the assessor shall estimate the value of the property in accordance with Section 59-2-307.  Any failure on the part of the owner or agent to report as required by this subsection subjects the property owner to a penalty of 50% of the amount of tax finally determined to be due.

(5)  An owner of taxable transitory personal property, except motor vehicles with a gross laden weight of 27,000 pounds or less, who has paid taxes on the personal property and who removes the property from the state prior to December, is entitled to a rebate of a proportionate share of the taxes paid as determined by the commission.  If a claim for rebate or adjustments is filed with the county auditor by December 10, the auditor shall immediately submit the claim with a recommendation to the county executive for its approval or denial.  If the claim is not approved prior to the end of the calendar year, or within 30 days after its submission, or if the claim is submitted after December 10, it shall be considered denied, and the owners of the property may file an action in the district court for a refund or an adjustment.

