59-2-405.   Uniform fee on tangible personal property required to be registered with the state -- Distribution of revenues -- Appeals.

(1)  The property described in Subsection (2), except Subsection (2)(b)(ii), is exempt from ad valorem property taxes pursuant to Utah Constitution Article XIII, Section 2, Subsection (6).

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), there is levied as provided in this part a statewide uniform fee in lieu of the ad valorem tax on:

(i)  motor vehicles required to be registered with the state that weigh 12,001 pounds or more;

(ii)  motorcycles as defined in Section 41-1a-102 that are required to be registered with the state;

(iii)  watercraft required to be registered with the state;

(iv)  recreational vehicles required to be registered with the state; and

(v)  all other tangible personal property required to be registered with the state before it is used on a public highway, on a public waterway, on public land, or in the air.

(b)  The following tangible personal property is exempt from the statewide uniform fee imposed by this section:

(i)  aircraft;

(ii)  state-assessed commercial vehicles;

(iii)  tangible personal property subject to a uniform fee imposed by:

(A)  Section 59-2-405.1;

(B)  Section 59-2-405.2; or

(C)  Section 59-2-405.3; and

(iv)  personal property that is exempt from state or county ad valorem property taxes under the laws of this state or of the federal government.

(3)  Beginning on January 1, 1999, the uniform fee is 1.5% of the fair market value of the personal property, as established by the commission.

(4)  Notwithstanding Section 59-2-407, property subject to the uniform fee that is brought into the state and is required to be registered in Utah shall, as a condition of registration, be subject to the uniform fee unless all property taxes or uniform fees imposed by the state of origin have been paid for the current calendar year.

(5) (a)  The revenues collected in each county from the uniform fee shall be distributed by the county to each taxing entity in which the property described in Subsection (2) is located in the same proportion in which revenue collected from ad valorem real property tax is distributed.

(b)  Each taxing entity shall distribute the revenues received under Subsection (5)(a) in the same proportion in which revenue collected from ad valorem real property tax is distributed.

(6)  An appeal relating to the uniform fee imposed on the tangible personal property described in Subsection (2) shall be filed pursuant to Section 59-2-1005.



Amended by Chapter 210, 2008 General Session

