59-2-704.   Assessment studies -- Sharing of data -- Factoring assessment rates -- Corrective action.

(1)  Each year, to assist in the evaluation of appraisal performance of taxable real property, the commission shall conduct and publish studies to determine the relationship between the market value shown on the assessment roll and the market value of real property in each county. The studies shall include measurements of uniformity within counties and use statistical methods established by the commission. County assessors may provide sales information to the commission for purposes of the studies.  The commission shall make the sales and appraisal information related to the studies available to the assessors upon request.

(2)  The commission shall, each year, order each county to adjust or factor its assessment rates using the most current studies so that the assessment rate in each county is in accordance with that prescribed in Section 59-2-103.  The adjustment or factoring may include an entire county, geographical areas within a county, and separate classes of properties. Where significant value deviations occur, the commission shall also order corrective action.

(3)  If the commission determines that sales data in any county is insufficient to perform the studies required under Subsection (1), the commission may conduct appraisals of property within that county.

(4)  If a county fails to implement factoring or corrective action ordered under Subsection (2), the commission shall:

(a)  implement the factoring or corrective action; and

(b)  charge 100% of the reasonable implementation costs to that county.

(5)  If a county disputes the factoring or corrective action ordered under Subsection (2), the matter may be mediated by the Multicounty Appraisal Trust.

(6)  The commission may change the factor for any county which, after a hearing before the commission, establishes that the factor should properly be set at a different level for that county.  The commission shall establish the method, procedure, and timetable for the hearings authorized under this section, including access to information to ensure a fair hearing.  The commission may establish rules to implement this section.

