59-2-1004.   Appeal to county board of equalization -- Real property -- Time period for appeal -- Decision of board -- Extensions approved by commission -- Appeal to commission.

(1) (a)  A taxpayer dissatisfied with the valuation or the equalization of the taxpayer's real property may make an application to appeal by:

(i)  filing the application with the county board of equalization within the time period described in Subsection (2); or

(ii)  making an application by telephone or other electronic means within the time period described in Subsection (2) if the county legislative body passes a resolution under Subsection (7) authorizing applications to be made by telephone or other electronic means.

(b)  The contents of the application shall be prescribed by rule of the county board of equalization.

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), for purposes of Subsection (1), a taxpayer shall make an application to appeal the valuation or the equalization of the taxpayer's real property on or before the later of:

(i)  September 15 of the current calendar year; or

(ii)  the last day of a 45-day period beginning on the day on which the county auditor mails the notice under Section 59-2-919.1.

(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a), in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the commission shall make rules providing for circumstances under which the county board of equalization is required to accept an application to appeal that is filed after the time period prescribed in Subsection (2)(a).

(3)  The owner shall include in the application under Subsection (1)(a)(i) the owner's estimate of the fair market value of the property and any evidence which may indicate that the assessed valuation of the owner's property is improperly equalized with the assessed valuation of comparable properties.

(4)  In reviewing evidence submitted to a county board of equalization by or on behalf of an owner or a county assessor, the county board of equalization shall consider and weigh:

(a)  the accuracy, reliability, and comparability of the evidence presented by the owner or the county assessor;

(b)  if submitted, the sales price of relevant property that was under contract for sale as of the lien date but sold after the lien date;

(c)  if submitted, the sales offering price of property that was offered for sale as of the lien date but did not sell, including considering and weighing the amount of time for which, and manner in which, the property was offered for sale; and

(d)  if submitted, other evidence that is relevant to determining the fair market value of the property.

(5) (a)  The county board of equalization shall meet and hold public hearings as prescribed in Section 59-2-1001.

(b)  The county board of equalization shall make a decision on each appeal filed in accordance with this section within a 60-day period after the day on which the application is made.

(c)  The commission may approve the extension of a time period provided for in Subsection (5)(b) for a county board of equalization to make a decision on an appeal.

(d)  Unless the commission approves the extension of a time period under Subsection (5)(c), if a county board of equalization fails to make a decision on an appeal within the time period described in Subsection (5)(b), the county legislative body shall:

(i)  list the appeal, by property owner and parcel number, on the agenda for the next meeting of the county legislative body that is held after the expiration of the time period described in Subsection (5)(b); and

(ii)  hear the appeal at the meeting described in Subsection (5)(d)(i).

(e)  The decision of the board shall contain a determination of the valuation of the property based on fair market value, and a conclusion that the fair market value is properly equalized with the assessed value of comparable properties.

(f)  If no evidence is presented before the county board of equalization, it will be presumed that the equalization issue has been met.

(g) (i)  If the fair market value of the property that is the subject of the appeal deviates plus or minus 5% from the assessed value of comparable properties, the valuation of the appealed property shall be adjusted to reflect a value equalized with the assessed value of comparable properties.

(ii)  Subject to Sections 59-2-301.1, 59-2-301.2, 59-2-301.3, and 59-2-301.4, equalized value established under Subsection (5)(g)(i) shall be the assessed value for property tax purposes until the county assessor is able to evaluate and equalize the assessed value of all comparable properties to bring them all into conformity with full fair market value.

(6)  If any taxpayer is dissatisfied with the decision of the county board of equalization, the taxpayer may file an appeal with the commission as prescribed in Section 59-2-1006.

(7)  A county legislative body may pass a resolution authorizing taxpayers owing taxes on property assessed by that county to file property tax appeals applications under this section by telephone or other electronic means.



Amended by Chapter 180, 2013 General Session

