59-2-1004.6.   Tax relief for decrease in fair market value due to access
interruption.
(1)  For purposes of this section "access interruption" means interruption of
the normal access to or from property due to any circumstance beyond the
control of the owner, including:
(a)  road construction;
(b)  traffic diversion;
(c)  an accident;
(d)  vandalism;
(e)  an explosion;
(f)  fire;
(g)  a flood;
(h)  a storm;
(i)  a tornado;
(j)  winds;
(k)  an earthquake;
(l)  lightning;
(m)  any adverse weather event; or
(n)  any event similar to the events described in this Subsection (1), as
determined by the commission by rule made in accordance with Title 63G,
Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(2)  Except as provided in Subsection (3), if, during a calendar year,
property sustains a decrease in fair market value that is caused by access
interruption, the owner of the property may apply to the county board of
equalization for an adjustment in the fair market value of the owner's
property as provided in Subsection (4).
(3)  Notwithstanding Subsection (2), an owner may not receive the tax relief
described in this section if the decrease in fair market value described in
Subsection (2) is due to the intentional action or inaction of the owner.
(4) (a)  To receive the tax relief described in Subsection (2), the owner of
the property shall file an application for tax relief with the county board of
equalization on or before September 30.
(b)  The county board of equalization shall hold a hearing:
(i)  within 30 days of the day on which the application described in
Subsection (4)(a) is received by the board of equalization; and
(ii)  in the manner described in Section 59-2-1001.
(c)  At the hearing described in Subsection (4)(b), the applicant shall have
the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence:
(i)  that the property sustained a decrease in fair market value, during the
applicable calendar year, that was caused by access interruption;
(ii)  the amount of the decrease in fair market value described in Subsection
(4)(c)(i); and
(iii)  that the decrease in fair market value described in Subsection
(4)(c)(i) is not due to the action or inaction of the applicant.
(d)  If the county board of equalization determines that the applicant has met
the burden of proof described in Subsection (4)(c), the county board of
equalization shall reduce the valuation of the property described in
Subsection (4)(c)(i) by an amount equal to the decrease in fair market value
of the property multiplied by the portion of the calendar year that the fair
market value of the property was decreased.
(e)  The decision of the board of equalization shall be provided to the
applicant, in writing, within 30 days of the day on which the hearing
described in Subsection (4)(b) is concluded.
(5)  An applicant that is dissatisfied with a decision of the board of
equalization under this section may appeal that decision under Section
59-2-1006.
