59-2-1109.   Indigent persons -- Deferral or abatement -- Application --
County authority to make refunds.
(1)  A person under the age of 65 years is not eligible for a deferral or
abatement provided for poor people under Sections 59-2-1107 and 59-2-1108
unless:
(a)  the county finds that extreme hardship would prevail if the grants were
not made; or
(b)  the person is disabled.
(2) (a)  An application for the deferral or abatement shall be filed on or
before September 1 with the county in which the property is located.
(b)  The application shall include a signed statement setting forth the
eligibility of the applicant for the deferral or abatement.
(c)  Both husband and wife shall sign the application if the husband and wife
seek a deferral or abatement on a residence:
(i)  in which they both reside; and
(ii)  which they own as joint tenants.
(d)  A county may extend the deadline for filing under Subsection (2)(a) until
December 31 if the county finds that good cause exists to extend the deadline.
(3) (a)  For purposes of this Subsection (3):
(i)  "Property taxes due" means the taxes due on a person's property:
(A)  for which an abatement is granted by a county under Section 59-2-1107;
and
(B)  for the calendar year for which the abatement is granted.
(ii)  "Property taxes paid" is an amount equal to the sum of:
(A)  the amount of the property taxes the person paid for the taxable year for
which the person is applying for the abatement; and
(B)  the amount of the abatement the county grants under Section 59-2-1107.
(b)  A county granting an abatement to a person under Section 59-2-1107 shall
refund to that person an amount equal to the amount by which the person's
property taxes paid exceed the person's property taxes due, if that amount is
$1 or more.
(4)  For purposes of this section:
(a)  a poor person is any person:
(i)  whose total household income as defined in Section 59-2-1202 is less than
the maximum household income certified to a homeowner's credit under
Subsection 59-2-1208(1);
(ii)  who resides for not less than ten months of each year in the residence
for which the tax relief, deferral, or abatement is requested; and
(iii)  who is unable to meet the tax assessed on the person's residential
property as the tax becomes due; and
(b)  "residence" includes a mobile home as defined under Section 70D-2-401.
(5)  If the claimant is the grantor of a trust holding title to real or
tangible personal property on which an abatement or deferral is claimed, the
claimant may claim the portion of the abatement or deferral under Section
59-2-1107 or 59-2-1108 and be treated as the owner of that portion of the
property held in trust for which the claimant proves to the satisfaction of
the county that:
(a)  title to the portion of the trust will revest in the claimant upon the
exercise of a power:
(i)  by:
(A)  the claimant as grantor of the trust;
(B)  a nonadverse party; or
(C)  both the claimant and a nonadverse party; and
(ii)  regardless of whether the power is a power:
(A)  to revoke;
(B)  to terminate;
(C)  to alter;
(D)  to amend; or
(E)  to appoint;
(b)  the claimant is obligated to pay the taxes on that portion of the trust
property beginning January 1 of the year the claimant claims the abatement or
deferral; and
(c)  the claimant meets the requirements under this part for the abatement or
deferral.
(6)  The commission shall adopt rules to implement this section.
(7)  Any poor person may qualify for:
(a)  the deferral of taxes under Section 59-2-1108;
(b)  if the person meets the requisites of this section, for the abatement of
taxes under Section 59-2-1107; or
(c)  both:
(i)  the deferral described in Subsection (7)(a); and
(ii)  the abatement described in Subsection (7)(b).
