59-2-1602.   Property Tax Valuation Agency Fund -- Creation -- Statewide
levy -- Additional county levy permitted.
(1) (a)  There is created the Property Tax Valuation Agency Fund, to be funded
by the revenue collected from the multicounty assessing and collecting levy as
provided in Subsection (3)(c) and Section 59-2-1603.
(b)  The purpose of the multicounty assessing and collecting levy required
under Subsection (2) and the disbursement formulas established in Section
59-2-1603 is to promote the:
(i)  accurate valuation of property;
(ii)  establishment and maintenance of uniform assessment levels within and
among counties; and
(iii)  efficient administration of the property tax system, including the
costs of assessment, collection, and distribution of property taxes.
(c)  Income derived from the investment of money in the fund created in this
Subsection (1) shall be deposited in and become part of the fund.
(2) (a)  Annually, each county shall impose a multicounty assessing and
collecting levy not to exceed .0002 per dollar of taxable value as authorized
by the Legislature as provided in Subsection (2)(b).
(b)  Subject to Subsections (2)(c), (2)(d), and (5), in order to fund the
Property Tax Valuation Agency Fund, the Legislature shall authorize the amount
of the multicounty assessing and collecting levy.
(c)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(d)(i)(B), the multicounty assessing
and collecting levy may not exceed the certified revenue levy as defined in
Section 59-2-102, unless:
(i)  the Legislature authorizes a multicounty assessing and collecting levy
that exceeds the certified revenue levy; and
(ii)  the state complies with the notice requirements of Section 59-2-926.
(d) (i)  For a calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2009, the
Legislature:
(A)  shall add an additional .000010 per dollar of taxable value to the amount
it authorizes for the multicounty assessing and collecting levy:
(I)  described in Subsection (2)(b); and
(II)  imposed in a county of the second through sixth class; and
(B)  is exempt from the notice requirements of Section 59-2-926 for the
revenue generated within a county of the second through sixth class by the
.000010 per dollar of taxable value described in Subsection (2)(d)(i)(A).
(ii)  The revenue generated by the additional .000010 per dollar of taxable
value of the multicounty assessing and collecting levy imposed within a county
of the second through sixth class shall be distributed to the counties as
described in Section 59-2-1606.
(3) (a)  The multicounty assessing and collecting levy authorized by the
Legislature under Subsection (2) shall be separately stated on the tax notice
as a multicounty assessing and collecting levy.
(b)  The multicounty assessing and collecting levy authorized by the
Legislature under Subsection (2) is:
(i)  exempt from the provisions of Sections 17C-1-403 and 17C-1-404;
(ii)  in addition to and exempt from the maximum levies allowable under
Section 59-2-908; and
(iii)  exempt from the notice requirements of Section 59-2-919.
(c) (i)  Each contributing county shall transmit quarterly to the state
treasurer the portion of the multicounty assessing and collecting levy which
is above the amount to which that county is entitled to under Section
59-2-1603.
(ii)  The revenue transmitted under Subsection (3)(c)(i) shall be transmitted
no later than the tenth day of the month following the end of the quarter in
which the revenue is collected.
(iii)  If revenue transmitted under Subsection (3)(c)(i) is transmitted after
the tenth day of the month following the end of the quarter in which the
revenue is collected, the county shall pay an interest penalty at the rate of
10% each year until the revenue is transmitted.
(iv)  Each contributing county that transmits to the state treasurer a portion
of the multicounty assessing and collecting levy in accordance with Subsection
(3)(c) shall levy sufficient property taxes to fund its county assessing and
collecting budgets.
(d)  The state treasurer shall deposit in the fund the:
(i)  revenue transmitted to the fund by contributing counties;
(ii)  interest accrued from that levy; and
(iii)  penalties received under Subsection (3)(c)(iii).
(4) (a)  A county may levy a county additional property tax in accordance with
this Subsection (4).
(b)  A receiving county may not receive funds from the Property Tax Valuation
Agency Fund unless the receiving county levies a county additional property
tax of at least .0003 per dollar of taxable value of taxable property as
reported by each county.
(c)  The county additional property tax described in Subsection (4)(a) shall
be levied by the county and stated on the tax notice as a county assessing and
collecting levy.
(d)  The purpose of the county additional property tax established in this
Subsection (4) is to promote the:
(i)  accurate valuation of property;
(ii)  establishment and maintenance of uniform assessment levels within and
among counties; and
(iii)  efficient administration of the property tax system, including the
costs of assessment, collection, and distribution of property taxes.
(e)  A county additional property tax levy established in Subsection (4)(a)
is:
(i)  exempt from the provisions of Sections 17C-1-403 and 17C-1-404;
(ii)  in addition to and exempt from the maximum levies allowable under
Section 59-2-908; and
(iii)  beginning on January 1, 2009:
(A)  for a county that was designated as a receiving county by the state
auditor during the prior calendar year, subject to the notice and public
hearing provisions of Section 59-2-919 only if the county additional property
tax levied by that county levy is raised to a rate in excess of .0003; and
(B)  except as provided in Subsection (4)(f), for a county that was designated
as a contributing county by the state auditor during the prior calendar year,
subject to the notice and public hearing provisions of Section 59-2-919.
(f)  A county additional property tax levy in a county that was not a
receiving county during the prior year shall be subject to the notice and
public hearing provisions described in Subsection (4)(e)(iii)(A) if the county
would have been designated as a receiving county during the prior calendar
year if the county had levied a county additional property tax of at least
.0003 per dollar of taxable value.
(g)  For the calendar year that begins on January 1, 2009, a contributing
county of the second or third class shall reduce its county additional
property tax rate by .000005 per dollar of taxable value.
(5)  Subject to Subsection (6), for calendar years beginning on or after
January 1, 2007, the amount of the multicounty assessing and collecting levy
described in this section shall be reduced by an amount equal to the
difference between:
(a)  the amount of revenue budgeted:
(i)  by each receiving county for that calendar year; and
(ii)  for the county additional property tax levy described in Subsection
(4)(a); and
(b)  the amount of revenue budgeted:
(i)  by each receiving county for the calendar year immediately preceding the
calendar year described in Subsection (5)(a)(i); and
(ii)  for the county additional property tax levy described in Subsection
(4)(a).
(6)  The amounts described in the calculations required by Subsection (5) are
exclusive of new growth.
