59-2-1603.   Disbursement of monies in the Property Tax Valuation Agency
Fund -- Use of funds.
(1)  The state auditor shall authorize disbursement of money from the Property
Tax Valuation Agency Fund to each receiving county in accordance with this
section.
(2)  Except as provided in Section 59-2-1606 and Subsection 59-2-303.1(4),
money derived from funds transmitted by contributing counties shall be
disbursed pro rata to receiving counties of the second through sixth class
based upon the number of adjusted parcel units in each county as determined in
Subsection (3).
(3) (a)  The state auditor shall determine the amount of each county's
multicounty assessing and collecting allocation in accordance with this
Subsection (3).
(b)  For a county of the first class, the county's multicounty assessing and
collecting allocation shall be 94.5% of the revenue it collects from imposing
the multicounty assessing and collecting levy.
(c)  For counties of the second through sixth class, a county's multicounty
assessing and collecting allocation shall be the product of:
(i)  the county's adjusted parcel ratio; and
(ii)  the amount of all revenue generated statewide by the imposition of the
multicounty assessing and collecting levy.
(d)  For purposes of this section, a county's adjusted parcel ratio shall be
determined by multiplying the sum of the following by the county parcel
factor:
(i)  the number of residential parcels multiplied by 2;
(ii)  the number of commercial parcels multiplied by 4; and
(iii)  the number of all other parcels multiplied by 1.
(e)  For purposes of this Subsection (3), the county class factor is:
(i)  0.9 for counties of the second class;
(ii)  1.0 for counties of the third class;
(iii)  1.05 for counties of the fourth class;
(iv)  1.15 for counties of the fifth class; and
(v)  1.3 for counties of the sixth class.
(f)  The commission shall provide the state auditor a list of each county's
parcel counts described in Subsection (3)(d).
(4) (a)  A first class county shall transmit to the fund an amount equal to
the greater of the following:
(i)  $250,000; or
(ii)  the lesser of the following:
(A)  5.5% of the revenue it collects from imposing the multicounty assessing
and collecting levy during a calendar year; or
(B)  $500,000.
(b)  A second, third, or fourth class contributing county shall transmit to
the fund an amount equal to the following:
(i)  if the contributing county's surplus revenue is equal to or less than the
contributing county's minimum county contribution, the minimum county
contribution;
(ii)  if the contributing county's surplus revenue is more than the county's
minimum county contribution and less than the county's maximum county
contribution, the contributing county's surplus revenue; or
(iii)  if the contributing county's surplus revenue is equal to or greater
than the county's maximum county contribution, the contributing county's
maximum county contribution.
(5)  Money in the Property Tax Valuation Agency Fund on the 10th day of the
month following the end of the quarter in which the revenue is collected
shall, upon authorization by the state auditor, be transmitted by the state
treasurer according to the disbursement formula determined under Subsection
(3) no later than five working days after the 10th day of the month following
the end of the quarter in which the revenue is collected.
(6)  If money in the Property Tax Valuation Agency Fund on the 10th day of the
month following the end of the quarter in which the revenue is collected is
not transmitted to a receiving county within five working days of the 10th day
of that month, except as provided for in Subsection (5), income from the
investment of that money shall be:
(a)  deposited in and become part of the Property Tax Valuation Agency Fund;
and
(b)  disbursed to the receiving county in the next quarter.
(7)  A county shall use money disbursed from the Property Tax Valuation Agency
Fund for:
(a)  establishing and maintaining accurate property valuations and uniform
assessment levels as required by Section 59-2-103; and
(b)  improving the efficiency of the property tax system.
(8)  If collections from the statewide imposition of the multicounty assessing
and collecting levy are less than the amount of revenue the levy was expected
to generate in a calendar year, the state auditor shall pro rata:
(a)  decrease each receiving county's multicounty assessing and collecting
allocation; and
(b)  for each contributing county that did not transmit its maximum county
contribution to the fund during the same calendar year, increase the
contributing county's contribution to the fund.
(9)  If money remains in the fund after all allocations have been distributed
to receiving counties in a calendar year, the state auditor shall retain the
money in the fund for distribution the following calendar year.
