59-2-1606.    CAMA system funding for counties -- Disbursements to the
Multicounty Appraisal Trust -- Use of funds.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "CAMA" means computer assisted mass appraisal.
(b)  "CAMA fee rate" means:
(i)  $1.50 for the calendar year that begins on January 1, 2009; and
(ii)  for a calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2010, the $1.50
described in Subsection (1)(b)(i) may be increased each year up to 2% at the
discretion of the Multicounty Appraisal Trust.
(c) (i)  "County parcel count" means the total number of residential parcels,
commercial parcels, and other parcels within a county.
(ii)  "County parcel count" does not include a county's parcel factor as
described in Subsection 59-2-1603(3)(d).
(d)  "Factored parcel count" means the product of:
(i)  a county's parcel count; and
(ii)  the county's class factor described in Subsection 59-2-1603(3)(e).
(e)  "Multicounty Appraisal Trust" means the Multicounty Appraisal Trust
created by interlocal agreement by all 29 counties in the state.
(2)  For a calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2009, before
determining the amount of each county's multicounty assessing and collecting
allocation in accordance with Subsection 59-2-1603(3), the state auditor shall
disburse to the Multicounty Appraisal Trust an amount of revenue equal to the
product of:
(a)  the sum of the factored parcel counts for all second through sixth class
counties; and
(b)  the CAMA fee rate.
(3) (a)  The funds described in Subsection (2) shall be used to provide
funding for a statewide CAMA system that will promote:
(i)  the accurate valuation of property;
(ii)  the establishment and maintenance of uniform assessment levels among
counties within the state; and
(iii)  efficient administration of the property tax system, including the
costs of assessment, collection, and distribution of property taxes.
(b)  The Multicounty Appraisal Trust shall determine which projects shall be
funded and oversee the administration of a statewide CAMA system.
