57-26-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Assignee" means a person entitled to enforce an assignment of rents.
(2)  "Assignment of rents" means a transfer of an interest in rents in
connection with an obligation secured by real property located in this state
and from which the rents arise.
(3)  "Assignor" means a person that makes an assignment of rents or the
successor owner of the real property from which the rents arise.
(4)  "Cash proceeds" means proceeds that are money, checks, deposit accounts,
or the like.
(5)  "Day" means calendar day.
(6)  "Deposit account" means a demand, time, savings, passbook, or similar
account maintained with a bank, savings bank, savings and loan association,
credit union, or trust company.
(7)  "Document" means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or
that is stored on an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in
perceivable form.
(8)  "Notification" means a document containing information that this chapter
requires a person to provide to another, signed by the person required to
provide the information.
(9)  "Person" means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture, public
corporation, government, or governmental subdivision, agency, or
instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity.
(10)  "Proceeds" means personal property that is received or collected on
account of a tenant's obligation to pay rents.
(11)  "Purchase" means to take by sale, lease, discount, negotiation,
mortgage, pledge, trust deed, lien, security interest, issue or reissue, gift,
or any other voluntary transaction creating an interest in property.
(12)  "Rents" means:
(a)  sums payable for the right to possess or occupy, or for the actual
possession or occupation of, real property of another person;
(b)  sums payable to an assignor under a policy of rental interruption
insurance covering real property;
(c)  claims arising out of a default in the payment of sums payable for the
right to possess or occupy real property of another person;
(d)  sums payable to terminate an agreement to possess or occupy real property
of another person;
(e)  sums payable to an assignor for payment or reimbursement of expenses
incurred in owning, operating and maintaining, or constructing or installing
improvements on, real property; or
(f)  any other sums payable under an agreement relating to the real property
of another person that constitute rents under law of this state other than
this chapter.
(13)  "Secured obligation" means an obligation the performance of which is
secured by an assignment of rents.
(14)  "Security instrument" means a document, however denominated, that
creates or provides for a security interest in real property, whether or not
it also creates or provides for a security interest in personal property.
(15)  "Security interest" means an interest in property that arises by
agreement and secures performance of an obligation.
(16)  "Sign" means, with present intent to authenticate or adopt a document:
(a)  to execute or adopt a tangible symbol; or
(b)  to attach to or logically associate with the document an electronic
sound, symbol, or process.
(17)  "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any territory or insular
possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(18)  "Submit for recording" means to submit a document complying with
applicable legal standards, with required fees and taxes, to the appropriate
governmental office under Title 57, Chapter 3, Recording of Documents.
(19)  "Tenant" means a person that has an obligation to pay sums for the right
to possess or occupy, or for possessing or occupying, the real property of
another person.
