72-10-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Acrobatics" means the intentional maneuvers of an aircraft not necessary to air navigation.

(2)  "Aeronautics" means transportation by aircraft, air instruction, the operation, repair, or maintenance of aircraft, and the design, operation, repair, or maintenance of airports, or other air navigation facilities.

(3)  "Aeronautics instructor" means any individual engaged in giving or offering to give instruction in aeronautics, flying, or ground subjects, either with or without:

(a)  compensation or other reward;

(b)  advertising the occupation;

(c)  calling his facilities an air school, or any equivalent term; or

(d)  employing or using other instructors.

(4)  "Aircraft" means any contrivance now known or in the future invented, used, or designed for navigation of or flight in the air.

(5)  "Air instruction" means the imparting of aeronautical information by any aviation instructor or in any air school or flying club.

(6)  "Airport" means any area of land, water, or both, that:

(a)  is used or is made available for landing and takeoff;

(b)  provides facilities for the shelter, supply, and repair of aircraft, and handling of passengers and cargo;

(c)  meets the minimum requirements established by the division as to size and design, surface, marking, equipment, and operation; and

(d)  includes all areas shown as part of the airport in the current airport layout plan as approved by the Federal Aviation Administration.

(7)  "Airport authority" means a political subdivision of the state, other than a county or municipality, that is authorized by statute to operate an airport.

(8)  "Airport operator" means a municipality, county, or airport authority that owns or operates a commercial airport.

(9) (a)  "Airport revenue" means:

(i)  all fees, charges, rents, or other payments received by or accruing to an airport operator for any of the following reasons:

(A)  revenue from air carriers, tenants, lessees, purchasers of airport properties, airport permittees making use of airport property and services, and other parties;

(B)  revenue received from the activities of others or the transfer of rights to others relating to the airport, including revenue received:

(I)  for the right to conduct an activity on the airport or to use or occupy airport property;

(II)  for the sale, transfer, or disposition of airport real or personal property, or any interest in that property, including transfer through a condemnation proceeding;

(III)  for the sale of, or the sale or lease of rights in, mineral, natural, or agricultural products or water owned by the airport operator to be taken from the airport; and

(IV)  for the right to conduct an activity on, or for the use or disposition of, real or personal property or any interest in real or personal property owned or controlled by the airport operator and used for an airport-related purpose but not located on the airport; or

(C)  revenue received from activities conducted by the airport operator whether on or off the airport, which is directly connected to the airport operator's ownership or operation of the airport; and

(ii)  state and local taxes on aviation fuel.

(b)  "Airport revenue" does not include amounts received by an airport operator as passenger facility fees pursuant to 49 U.S.C. Sec. 40117.

(10)  "Air school" means any person engaged in giving, offering to give, or advertising, representing, or holding himself out as giving, with or without compensation or other reward, instruction in aeronautics, flying, or ground subjects, or in more than one of these subjects.

(11)  "Airworthiness" means conformity with requirements prescribed by the Federal Aviation Administration regarding the structure or functioning of aircraft, engine, parts, or accessories.

(12)  "Civil aircraft" means any aircraft other than a public aircraft.

(13)  "Commercial aircraft" means aircraft used for commercial purposes.

(14)  "Commercial airport" means a landing area, landing strip, or airport that may be used for commercial operations.

(15)  "Commercial flight operator" means a person who conducts commercial operations.

(16)  "Commercial operations" means:

(a)  any operations of an aircraft for compensation or hire or any services performed incidental to the operation of any aircraft for which a fee is charged or compensation is received, including the servicing, maintaining, and repairing of aircraft, the rental or charter of aircraft, the operation of flight or ground schools, the operation of aircraft for the application or distribution of chemicals or other substances, and the operation of aircraft for hunting and fishing; or

(b)  the brokering or selling of any of these services; but

(c)  does not include any operations of aircraft as common carriers certificated by the federal government or the services incidental to those operations.

(17)  "Dealer" means any person who is actively engaged in the business of flying for demonstration purposes, or selling or exchanging aircraft, and who has an established place of business.

(18)  "Division" means the Operations Division in the Department of Transportation, created in Section 72-1-204.

(19)  "Experimental aircraft" means:

(a)  any aircraft designated by the Federal Aviation Administration or the military as experimental and used solely for the purpose of experiments, or tests regarding the structure or functioning of aircraft, engines, or their accessories; and

(b)  any aircraft designated by the Federal Aviation Administration as:

(i)  being custom or amateur built; and

(ii)  used for recreational, educational, or display purposes.

(20)  "Flight" means any kind of locomotion by aircraft while in the air.

(21)  "Flying club" means five or more persons who for neither profit nor reward own, lease, or use one or more aircraft for the purpose of instruction, pleasure, or both.

(22)  "Glider" means an aircraft heavier than air, similar to an airplane, but without a power plant.

(23)  "Mechanic" means a person who constructs, repairs, adjusts, inspects, or overhauls aircraft, engines, or accessories.

(24)  "Parachute jumper" means any person who has passed the required test for jumping with a parachute from an aircraft, and has passed an examination showing that he possesses the required physical and mental qualifications for the jumping.

(25)  "Parachute rigger" means any person who has passed the required test for packing, repairing, and maintaining parachutes.

(26)  "Passenger aircraft" means aircraft used for transporting persons, in addition to the pilot or crew, with or without their necessary personal belongings.

(27)  "Person" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, or association of individuals.

(28)  "Pilot" means any person who operates the controls of an aircraft while in-flight.

(29)  "Primary glider" means any glider that has a gliding angle of less than 10 to one.

(30)  "Public aircraft" means an aircraft used exclusively in the service of any government or of any political subdivision, including the government of the United States, of the District of Columbia, and of any state, territory, or insular possession of the United States, but not including any government-owned aircraft engaged in carrying persons or goods for commercial purposes.

(31)  "Reckless flying" means the operation or piloting of any aircraft recklessly, or in a manner as to endanger the property, life, or body of any person, due regard being given to the prevailing weather conditions, field conditions, and to the territory being flown over.

(32)  "Registration number" means the number assigned by the Federal Aviation Administration to any aircraft, whether or not the number includes a letter or letters.

(33)  "Secondary glider" means any glider that has a gliding angle between 10 to one and 16 to one, inclusive.

(34)  "Soaring glider" means any glider that has a gliding angle of more than 16 to one.

