72-10-116.   Airport license required -- Issuance by division -- Restrictions on use of lands or waters of another -- Annual fee.

(1)  For purposes of this section, aircraft based at the owner's airport means an aircraft which is hangared, tied down, or parked at an owner's airport for a plurality of the year.

(2) (a)  An airport open to public use may not be used or operated unless it is duly licensed by the division.

(b)  A person who owns or operates an airport open to public use shall file an application with the division for a license for the facility.

(c)  Semi-annually, an owner or operator described in Subsection (2)(b) shall provide a list of all aircraft based at the owner's airport to the Utah Division of Aeronautics.

(3) (a)  A license shall be granted whenever it is reasonably necessary for the accommodation and convenience of the public and may be granted in other cases in the discretion of the division.

(b)  The division may not issue a license if the division finds that the facility is not constructed, equipped, and operated in accordance with the standards set by the department.

(4) (a)  The landing or taking off of aircraft on or from the lands or waters of another without consent is unlawful, except in the case of a forced landing.

(b)  For damages caused by a takeoff or landing, the owner, lessee of the aircraft, operator, or any of them is liable.

(5) (a)  A student pilot may not land on any area without the knowledge of the operator, instructor, or school from which the student is flying.

(b)  The use of private landing fields must not impose a hazard upon the person or property of others.

(6)  A certificate of registration is not required of, and the rules made under this title do not apply to an airport owned or operated by the government of the United States.

(7)  The division, with the approval of the commission, may charge a fee determined by the division pursuant to Section 63J-1-504 for the issuance of an annual airport license.

