72-10-117.   Aircraft landing permits -- Eligible aircraft -- Special licenses -- Rules -- Proof of insurance -- Bonds.

(1) (a)  The county executive of any county may issue permits authorizing aircraft to land on or take off from designated county roads.

(b)  Permits may be issued to aircraft operated:

(i)  as air ambulances;

(ii)  as pesticide applicators; or

(iii)  by or under contract with public utilities and used in connection with inspection, maintenance, installation, operation, construction, or repair of property owned or operated by the public utility.

(2)  Permits may also be issued by the county executive to other aircraft under rules made by the division.

(3) (a)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the division shall make rules for issuing a special license to:

(i)  an aircraft permitted by a county executive to land on a county road; and

(ii)  a pilot permitted to operate an aircraft licensed under this subsection from a county road.

(b)  The rules made under this subsection shall include provisions for the safety of the flying and motoring public.

(4)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the department shall make rules for the landing and taking off of aircraft to which permits have been issued, which may include annual reports of activities of the aircraft.

(5)  Prior to obtaining a permit or license to any aircraft, the applicant shall file with the county executive and the division a certificate of insurance executed by an insurance company or association authorized to transact business in this state upon a form prescribed by the division that there is in full force and effect a policy of insurance covering the aircraft for liability against:

(a)  personal injury or death for any one person in an amount of $50,000 or more;

(b)  any one accident in an amount of $100,000 or more; and

(c)  property damage in an amount of $50,000 or more.

(6)  In addition to the insurance required under this section, either the county executive or the division may require the posting of a bond to indemnify the county or division against liability resulting from issuing the permit or license.

