26-33a-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Committee" means the Health Data Committee created by Section 26-1-7.

(2)  "Control number" means a number assigned by the committee to an individual's health data as an identifier so that the health data can be disclosed or used in research and statistical analysis without readily identifying the individual.

(3)  "Data supplier" means a health care facility, health care provider, self-funded employer, third-party payor, health maintenance organization, or government department which could reasonably be expected to provide health data under this chapter.

(4)  "Disclosure" or "disclose" means the communication of health care data to any individual or organization outside the committee, its staff, and contracting agencies.

(5)  "Executive director" means the director of the department.

(6)  "Health care facility" means a facility that is licensed by the department under Title 26, Chapter 21, Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act.  The committee may by rule add, delete, or modify the list of facilities that come within this definition for purposes of this chapter.

(7)  "Health care provider" means any person, partnership, association, corporation, or other facility or institution that renders or causes to be rendered health care or professional services as a physician, registered nurse, licensed practical nurse, nurse-midwife, dentist, dental hygienist, optometrist, clinical laboratory technologist, pharmacist, physical therapist, podiatric physician, psychologist, chiropractic physician, naturopathic physician, osteopathic physician, osteopathic physician and surgeon, audiologist, speech pathologist, certified social worker, social service worker, social service aide, marriage and family counselor, or practitioner of obstetrics, and others rendering similar care and services relating to or arising out of the health needs of persons or groups of persons, and officers, employees, or agents of any of the above acting in the course and scope of their employment.

(8)  "Health data" means information relating to the health status of individuals, health services delivered, the availability of health manpower and facilities, and the use and costs of resources and services to the consumer, except vital records as defined in Section 26-2-2 shall be excluded.

(9)  "Health maintenance organization" has the meaning set forth in Section 31A-8-101.

(10)  "Identifiable health data" means any item, collection, or grouping of health data that makes the individual supplying or described in the health data identifiable.

(11)  "Individual" means a natural person.

(12)  "Organization" means any corporation, association, partnership, agency, department, unit, or other legally constituted institution or entity, or part thereof.

(13)  "Research and statistical analysis" means activities using health data analysis including:

(a)  describing the group characteristics of individuals or organizations;

(b)  analyzing the noncompliance among the various characteristics of individuals or organizations;

(c)  conducting statistical procedures or studies to improve the quality of health data;

(d)  designing sample surveys and selecting samples of individuals or organizations; and

(e)  preparing and publishing reports describing these matters.

(14)  "Self-funded employer" means an employer who provides for the payment of health care services for employees directly from the employer's funds, thereby assuming the financial risks rather than passing them on to an outside insurer through premium payments.

(15)  "Plan" means the plan developed and adopted by the Health Data Committee under Section 26-33a-104.

(16)  "Third party payor" means:

(a)  an insurer offering a health benefit plan, as defined by Section 31A-1-301, to at least 2,500 enrollees in the state;

(b)  a nonprofit health service insurance corporation licensed under Title 31A, Chapter 7, Nonprofit Health Service Insurance Corporations;

(c)  a program funded or administered by Utah for the provision of health care services, including the Medicaid and medical assistance programs described in Chapter 18, Medical Assistance Act; and

(d)  a corporation, organization, association, entity, or person:

(i)  which administers or offers a health benefit plan to at least 2,500 enrollees in the state; and

(ii)  which is required by administrative rule adopted by the department in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to supply health data to the committee.

