26-33a-103.   Committee membership -- Terms -- Chair -- Compensation.

(1)  The Health Data Committee created by Section 26-1-7 shall be composed of 14 members appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate.

(2)  No more than seven members of the committee may be members of the same political party.

(3)  The appointed members of the committee shall be knowledgeable regarding the health care system and the characteristics and use of health data and shall be selected so that the committee at all times includes individuals who provide care.

(4)  The membership of the committee shall be:

(a)  one person employed by or otherwise associated with a hospital as defined by Section 26-21-2, who is knowledgeable about the collection, analysis, and use of health care data;

(b) two physicians, as defined in Section 58-67-102:

(i)  who are licensed to practice in this state;

(ii)  who actively practice medicine in this state;

(iii)  who are trained in or have experience with the collection, analysis, and use of health care data; and

(iv)  one of whom is selected by the Utah Medical Association;

(c)  three persons:

(i)  who are:

(A)  employed by or otherwise associated with a business that supplies health care insurance to its employees; and

(B)  knowledgeable about the collection and use of health care data; and

(ii)  at least one of whom represents an employer employing 50 or fewer employees;

(d)  three persons representing health insurers:

(i)  at least one of whom is employed by or associated with a third-party payor that is not licensed under Title 31A, Chapter 8, Health Maintenance Organizations and Limited Health Plans;

(ii)  at least one of whom is employed by or associated with a third party payer that is licensed under Title 31A, Chapter 8, Health Maintenance Organizations and Limited Health Plans; and

(iii)  who are trained in, or experienced with the collection, analysis, and use of health care data;

(e)  two consumer representatives:

(i)  from organized consumer or employee associations; and

(ii)  knowledgeable about the collection and use of health care data;

(f)  one person:

(i)  representative of a neutral, non-biased entity that can demonstrate that it has the broad support of health care payers and health care providers; and

(ii)  who is knowledgeable about the collection, analysis, and use of health care data; and

(g)  two persons representing public health who are trained in, or experienced with the collection, use, and analysis of health care data.

(5) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (5)(b), as terms of current committee members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed member to a four-year term.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (5)(a), the governor shall:

(i)  at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years; and

(ii)  prior to July 1, 2011, re-appoint the members described in Subsections (4)(b), (d), and (f) as necessary to comply with changes in eligibility for membership that were enacted during the 2011 General Session.

(c)  Members may serve after their terms expire until replaced.

(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(7)  Committee members shall annually elect a chair of the committee from among their membership.  The chair shall report to the executive director.

(8)  The committee shall meet at least once during each calendar quarter.  Meeting dates shall be set by the chair upon 10 working days notice to the other members, or upon written request by at least four committee members with at least 10 working days notice to other committee members.

(9)  Seven committee members constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  Action may not be taken except upon the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the committee.

(10)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(11)  All meetings of the committee shall be open to the public, except that the committee may hold a closed meeting if the requirements of Sections 52-4-204, 52-4-205, and 52-4-206 are met.



Amended by Chapter 400, 2011 General Session

