53A-1a-106.   School district and individual school powers.

(1)  In order to acquire and develop the characteristics listed in Section 53A-1a-104, each school district and each public school within its respective district shall implement a comprehensive system of accountability in which students advance through public schools by demonstrating competency in required skills and mastery of required knowledge through the use of diverse assessment instruments such as authentic and criterion referenced tests, projects, and portfolios.

(2) (a)  Each school district and public school shall:

(i)  develop and implement programs integrating technology into the curriculum, instruction, and student assessment;

(ii)  provide for teacher and parent involvement in policymaking at the school site;

(iii)  implement a public school choice program to give parents, students, and teachers greater flexibility in designing and choosing among programs with different focuses through schools within the same district and other districts, subject to space availability, demographics, and legal and performance criteria;

(iv)  establish strategic planning at both the district and school level and site-based decision making programs at the school level;

(v)  provide opportunities for each student to acquire and develop academic and occupational knowledge, skills, and abilities;

(vi)  participate in ongoing research and development projects primarily at the school level aimed at improving the quality of education within the system; and

(vii)  involve business and industry in the education process through the establishment of partnerships with the business community at the district and school level.

(b) (i)  Each local school board, in consultation with school personnel, parents, and school community councils or similar entities shall establish policies to provide for the effective implementation of a personalized student education plan (SEP) or student education/occupation plan (SEOP) for each student at the school site.

(ii)  The policies shall include guidelines and expectations for:

(A)  recognizing the student's accomplishments, strengths, and progress towards meeting student achievement standards as defined in U-PASS;

(B)  planning, monitoring, and managing education and career development; and

(C)  involving students, parents, and school personnel in preparing and implementing SEPs and SEOPs.

(iii)  A parent may request conferences with school personnel in addition to SEP or SEOP conferences established by local school board policy.

(iv)  Time spent during the school day to implement SEPs and SEOPs is considered part of the school term referred to in Subsection 53A-17a-103(5).

(3)  A school district or public school may submit proposals to modify or waive rules or policies of a supervisory authority within the public education system in order to acquire or develop the characteristics listed in Section 53A-1a-104.

(4) (a)  Each school district and public school shall make an annual report to its patrons on its activities under this section.

(b)  The reporting process shall involve participation from teachers, parents, and the community at large in determining how well the district or school is performing.

