53A-1a-507.   Requirements for charter schools.

(1)  A charter school shall be nonsectarian in its programs, admission policies, employment practices, and operations.

(2)  A charter school may not charge tuition or fees, except those fees normally charged by other public schools.

(3)  A charter school shall meet all applicable federal, state, and local health, safety, and civil rights requirements.

(4) (a)  A charter school shall make the same annual reports required of other public schools under this title, including an annual financial audit report.

(b)  A charter school shall file its annual financial audit report with the Office of the State Auditor within six months of the end of the fiscal year.

(5) (a)  A charter school shall be accountable to its chartering entity for performance as provided in the school's charter.

(b)  To measure the performance of a charter school, a chartering entity may use data contained in:

(i)  the charter school's annual financial audit report;

(ii)  a report submitted by the charter school as required by statute; or

(iii)  a report submitted by the charter school as required by its charter.

(c)  A chartering entity may not impose performance standards, except as permitted by statute, that limit, infringe, or prohibit a charter school's ability to successfully accomplish the purposes of charter schools as provided in Section 53A-1a-503 or as otherwise provided in law.

(6)  A charter school may not advocate unlawful behavior.

(7)  Except as provided in Section 53A-1-515, a charter school shall be organized and managed under Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act, after its authorization.

(8)  A charter school shall provide adequate liability and other appropriate insurance.

(9)  Beginning on July 1, 2007, a charter school shall submit any lease, lease-purchase agreement, or other contract or agreement relating to the charter school's facilities or financing the charter school facilities to its chartering entity for review and advice prior to the charter school entering into the lease, agreement, or contract.

(10)  A charter school may not employ an educator whose license has been suspended or revoked by the State Board of Education as provided in Section 53A-6-501.

