53A-1a-512.5.   Criminal background checks on school personnel -- Notice --
Payment of cost -- Request for review.
(1)  The chief administrative officer of a charter school:
(a)  shall require a potential employee or a volunteer who will be given
significant unsupervised access to a student in connection with the
volunteer's assignment to submit to a criminal background check as a condition
for employment or appointment; and
(b)  where reasonable cause exists, may require an existing employee or
volunteer to submit to a criminal background check.
(2)  The applicant, volunteer, or employee shall receive written notice that
the background check has been requested.
(3) (a)  Fingerprints of the individual shall be taken, and the Criminal
Investigations and Technical Services Division of the Department of Public
Safety, established in Section 53-10-103, shall release the individual's full
record of criminal convictions to the administrator requesting the
information.
(b)  The division shall maintain a separate file of fingerprints submitted
under Subsection (3)(a) and notify the State Office of Education when a new
entry is made against a person whose fingerprints are held in the file
regarding:
(i)  any matters involving an alleged sexual offense;
(ii)  any matters involving an alleged felony or class A misdemeanor drug
offense; or
(iii)  any matters involving an alleged offense against the person under Title
76, Chapter 5, Offenses Against the Person.
(c)  The cost of maintaining the separate file shall be paid by the State
Office of Education from fees charged to those submitting fingerprints.
(4)  The chief administrative officer or governing body of a charter school
shall consider only those convictions which are job-related in deciding
whether to employ, appoint, or dismiss an employee, applicant, or volunteer.
(5) (a)  The charter school shall pay the cost of the background check, except
as otherwise provided in Subsection (5)(b), and the monies collected shall be
credited to the Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division to
offset its expenses.
(b)  The charter school may require an applicant to pay the costs of a
background check as a condition for consideration for employment or
appointment, if the applicant:
(i)  has passed an initial review;
(ii)  is one of a pool of no more than five candidates for a position; and
(iii)  has not been the subject of a criminal background check of similar
scope during the preceding two years that was requested by a potential
employer or the State Board of Education.
(6)  The Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division shall, upon
request, seek additional information from regional or national criminal data
files in responding to inquiries under this section.
(7) (a)  The applicant, volunteer, or employee shall have the opportunity to
respond to any information received as a result of the background check.
(b)  A charter school shall resolve any request for review by an applicant,
volunteer, or employee seeking employment or employed by the charter school
through normal administrative procedures established by the charter school.
(8)  If a person is denied employment or is dismissed from employment because
of information obtained through a criminal background check, the person shall
receive written notice of the reasons for denial or dismissal and have an
opportunity to respond to the reasons under the procedures set forth in
Subsection (7).
(9)  Information obtained under this part is confidential and may only be
disclosed as provided in this section.
