53A-1a-515.   Charters authorized by local school boards.
(1)  Individuals and entities identified in Section 53A-1a-504 may enter into
an agreement with a local school board to establish and operate a charter
school within the geographical boundaries of the school district administered
by the board.
(2) (a)  An existing public school that converts to charter status under a
charter granted by a local school board may:
(i)  continue to receive the same services from the school district that it
received prior to its conversion; or
(ii)  contract out for some or all of those services with other public or
private providers.
(b)  Any other charter school authorized by a local school board may contract
with the board to receive some or all of the services referred to in
Subsection (3)(a).
(3) (a) (i)  A public school that converts to a charter school under a charter
granted by a local school board shall receive funding:
(A)  through the school district; and
(B)  on the same basis as it did prior to its conversion to a charter school.
(ii)  The school may also receive federal money designated for charter schools
under any federal program.
(b) (i)  A local school board-authorized charter school operating in a
facility owned by the school district and not paying reasonable rent to the
school district shall receive funding:
(A)  through the school district; and
(B)  on the same basis that other district schools receive funding.
(ii)  The school may also receive federal money designated for charter schools
under any federal program.
(c) Subject to the provisions in Section 53A-1a-502.5, a charter school
authorized by a local school board shall receive funding as provided in
Section 53A-1a-513.
(d) (i)  A charter school authorized by a local school board, but not
described in Subsection (3)(a), (b), or (c) shall receive funding:
(A)  through the school district; and
(B)  on the same basis that other district schools receive funding.
(ii)  The school may also receive federal money designated for charter schools
under any federal program.
(4) (a)  A local school board that receives an application for a charter
school under this section shall, within 45 days, either accept or reject the
application.
(b)  If the board rejects the application, it shall notify the applicant in
writing of the reason for the rejection.
(c)  The applicant may submit a revised application for reconsideration by the
board.
(d)  If the local school board refuses to authorize the applicant, the
applicant may seek a charter from the State Charter School Board under Section
53A-1a-505.
(5)  The State Board of Education shall make a rule providing for a timeline
for the opening of a charter school following the approval of a charter school
application by a local school board.
(6) (a)  After approval of a charter school application, the applicant and the
local school board shall set forth the terms and conditions for the operation
of the charter school in a written contractual agreement.
(b)  The agreement is the school's charter.
(7)  A local school board shall:
(a)  annually review and evaluate the performance of charter schools
authorized by the local school board and hold the schools accountable for
their performance;
(b)  monitor charter schools authorized by the local school board for
compliance with federal and state laws, rules, and regulations; and
(c)  provide technical support to charter schools authorized by the local
school board to assist them in understanding and performing their charter
obligations.
(8)  A local school board may terminate a charter school it authorizes as
provided in Sections 53A-1a-509 and 53A-1a-510.
(9)  In addition to the exemptions described in Sections 53A-1a-511 and 53A-
1a-512, a charter school authorized by a local school board is:
(a)  not required to separately submit a report or information required under
this title to the State Board of Education if the information is included in a
report or information that is submitted by the local school board or school
district; and
(b)  exempt from the requirement under Section 53A-1a-507 that a charter
school shall be organized and managed under Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah Revised
Nonprofit Corporation Act.
