53A-1a-518.   Regulated transactions and relationships -- Definitions -- Rulemaking.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Charter school officer" means:

(i)  a member of a charter school's governing board;

(ii)  a member of a board or an officer of a nonprofit corporation under which a charter school is organized and managed; or

(iii)  the chief administrative officer of a charter school.

(b) (i)  "Employment" means a position in which a person's salary, wages, pay, or compensation, whether as an employee or contractor, is paid from charter school funds.

(ii)  "Employment" does not include a charter school volunteer.

(c)  "Relative" means a father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, sister, brother, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law.

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), a relative of a charter school officer may not be employed at a charter school.

(b)  If a relative of a charter school officer is to be considered for employment in a charter school, the charter school officer shall:

(i)  disclose the relationship, in writing, to the other charter school officers;

(ii)  submit the employment decision to the charter school's governing board for the approval, by majority vote, of the charter school's governing board;

(iii)  abstain from voting on the issue; and

(iv)  be absent from any meeting when the employment is being considered and determined.

(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsections (3)(b) and (3)(c), a charter school officer or a relative of a charter school officer may not have a financial interest in a contract or other transaction involving a charter school in which the charter school officer serves as a charter school officer.

(b)  If a charter school's governing board considers entering into a contract or executing a transaction in which a charter school officer or a relative of a charter school officer has a financial interest, the charter school officer shall:

(i)  disclose the financial interest, in writing, to the other charter school officers;

(ii)  submit the contract or transaction decision to the charter school's governing board for the approval, by majority vote, of the charter school's governing board;

(iii)  abstain from voting on the issue; and

(iv)  be absent from any meeting when the contract or transaction is being considered and determined.

(c)  The provisions in Subsection (3)(a) do not apply to a reasonable contract of employment for:

(i)  the chief administrative officer of a charter school; or

(ii) a relative of the chief administrative officer of a charter school whose employment is approved in accordance with the provisions in Subsection (2).

(4)  The State Board of Education or State Charter School Board may not operate a charter school.



Amended by Chapter 162, 2010 General Session

