53A-1a-519.   Charter school students' participation in extracurricular activities at other public schools.

(1)  A charter school student is eligible to participate in an extracurricular activity not offered by the student's charter school at:

(a)  the school within whose attendance boundaries the student's custodial parent or legal guardian resides;

(b)  the public school from which the student withdrew for the purpose of attending a charter school; or

(c)  a public school that is not a charter school if the student's charter school is located on the campus of the public school or has local school board approval to locate on the campus of the public school.

(2)  In addition to the public schools listed in Subsection (1), the State Board of Education may establish rules to allow a charter school student to participate in an extracurricular activity at a public school other than a public school listed in Subsection (1).

(3)  A school other than a school described in Subsection (1)(a), (b), or (c) may allow a charter school student to participate in extracurricular activities other than:

(a)  interschool competitions of athletic teams sponsored and supported by a public school; or

(b)  interschool contests or competitions for music, drama, or forensic groups or teams sponsored and supported by a public school.

(4)  A charter school student is eligible for extracurricular activities at a public school consistent with eligibility standards as applied to full-time students of the public school.

(5)  A school district or public school may not impose additional requirements on a charter school student to participate in extracurricular activities that are not imposed on full-time students of the public school.

(6) (a)  The State Board of Education shall make rules establishing fees for charter school students' participation in extracurricular activities at school district schools.

(b)  The rules shall provide that:

(i)  charter school students pay the same fees as other students to participate in extracurricular activities;

(ii)  charter school students are eligible for fee waivers pursuant to Section 53A-12-103;

(iii)  for each charter school student who participates in an extracurricular activity at a school district school, the charter school shall pay a share of the school district's costs for the extracurricular activity; and

(iv)  a charter school's share of the costs of an extracurricular activity shall reflect state and local tax revenues expended, except capital facilities expenditures, for an extracurricular activity in a school district or school divided by total student enrollment of the school district or school.

(c)  In determining a charter school's share of the costs of an extracurricular activity under Subsections (6)(b)(iii) and (iv), the State Board of Education may establish uniform fees statewide based on average costs statewide or average costs within a sample of school districts.

(7)  When selection to participate in an extracurricular activity at a public school is made on a competitive basis, a charter school student is eligible to try out for and participate in the activity as provided in this section.

