53A-1a-602.   Job Enhancement Committee -- Composition -- Duties --
Appropriation.
(1)  There is created a Job Enhancement Committee to implement and administer
the Public Education Job Enhancement Program established in Section 53A-
1a-601.
(2) (a)  The committee shall consist of:
(i)  two members of the State Board of Education selected by the board;
(ii)  two members of the State Board of Regents selected by the board;
(iii)  six members of the general public who have business experience in
mathematics, physics, chemistry, physical science, learning technology, or
information technology selected by the governor;
(iv)  a master high school teacher, who has teaching experience in
mathematics, physics, chemistry, physical science, learning technology, or
information technology, selected by the superintendent of public instruction;
(v)  a master special education teacher, selected by the superintendent of
public instruction; and
(vi)  a master teacher in grades four through six with a mathematics
endorsement, selected by the superintendent of public instruction.
(b)  Committee members shall receive no compensation or benefits for their
service on the committee, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in
the performance of their duties at rates established by the Division of
Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(3) (a)  The committee shall receive and review applications submitted for
participation in the Public Education Job Enhancement Program established
under Section 53A-1a-601.
(b)  In reviewing applications, the committee shall focus on:
(i)  the prioritized critical areas of need identified under Subsection
(5)(a); and
(ii)  the awards being made on a competitive basis.
(c)  If the committee approves an application received under Subsection
(3)(a), it shall contract directly with the teacher applicant to receive the
award or the scholarship for a master's degree, an endorsement, or graduate
education, subject to Section 53A-1a-601.
(d)  The State Board of Education, through the superintendent of public
instruction, shall provide staff support for the committee and adequate and
reliable data on the state's supply of and demand for qualified:
(i)  secondary teachers with expertise in mathematics, physics, chemistry,
physical science, learning technologies, or information technology;
(ii)  special education teachers; and
(iii)  teachers in grades four through six with mathematics endorsements.
(4)  The committee may apply for grants and matching monies to enhance funding
available for the program established in Section 53A-1a-601.
(5)  The committee shall make a rule in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, establishing policies and procedures for:
(a)  making the awards and offering the scholarships in accordance with
prioritized critical areas of need as determined by the committee;
(b)  timelines for the submission and approval of applications under
Subsection (3); and
(c)  the distribution of the awards and scholarships to successful applicants
based on available monies provided by legislative appropriation.
(6)  Subject to future budget constraints, the Legislature shall make an
annual appropriation to the State Board of Education to fund the Public
Education Job Enhancement Program established under Section 53A-1a-601.
