53A-1a-903.    Voluntary extended-day kindergarten program funding.
(1)  As used in this section, "Title I school" means a school receiving
federal monies under Title I of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, Pub. L.
No. 107-110, for a schoolwide or targeted assistance program.
(2)  If funds are appropriated for this purpose, the State Board of Education
shall allocate funds to charter schools and school districts.
(3)  For charter schools, the State Board of Education shall:
(a)  determine the total allocation for charter schools by:
(i)  dividing the number of charter school students eligible to receive free
lunch by the total number of students in the public education system eligible
to receive free lunch in the prior school year; and
(ii)  multiplying the resulting percentage by the total amount of available
funds; and
(b)  allocate the resulting amount of funds to individual charter schools with
the greatest need for extended-day kindergarten, as determined by the State
Board of Education in consultation with the State Charter School Board.
(4)  For school districts, the State Board of Education shall:
(a)  determine the total allocation for school districts by subtracting the
charter school amount calculated under Subsection (3)(a) from the total amount
of available funds; and
(b)  allocate the resulting amount to applicant school districts by:
(i)  allocating to each school district the amount calculated by:
(A)  multiplying the value of the weighted pupil unit under Subsection 53A-
17a-103(1) by 0.45; and
(B)  multiplying the result by 20; and
(ii)  allocating any remaining funds after the allocation under Subsection
(4)(b)(i) by:
(A)  determining the number of students eligible to receive free lunch in the
prior school year for each school district; and
(B)  prorating the remaining funds based on the number of students eligible to
receive free lunch in each district.
(5)  The State Board of Education may modify the allocation of funds described
under this section to provide sufficient funding for each Title I school to
participate in the voluntary extended-day kindergarten program.
