23-25-3.   Definitions.
As used in this compact:
(1)  "Citation" means a summons, complaint, summons and complaint, ticket,
penalty assessment, or other official document issued to a person by a
wildlife officer or other peace officer for a wildlife violation which
contains an order requiring the person to respond.
(2)  "Collateral" means cash or other security deposited to secure an
appearance for trial in connection with the issuance by a wildlife officer or
other peace officer of a citation for a wildlife violation.
(3)  "Compliance" with respect to a citation means the act of answering a
citation through an appearance in a court or tribunal, or through the payment
of fines, costs, and surcharges.
(4)  "Conviction" means a conviction, including any court conviction, for an
offense related to the preservation, protection, management, or restoration of
wildlife which is prohibited by state statute, law, regulation, ordinance, or
administrative rule.  This conviction shall also include the forfeiture of any
bail, bond, or other security deposited to secure appearance by a person
charged with having committed the offense, the payment of a penalty
assessment, a plea of nolo contendere and the imposition of a deferred or
suspended sentence by the court.
(5)  "Court" means a court of law, including magistrate's court and the
justice of the peace court.
(6)  "Home state" means the state of primary residence of a person.
(7)  "Issuing state" means the participating state which issues a wildlife
citation to the violator.
(8)  "License" means a license, permit, or other public document which conveys
to the person to whom it was issued the privilege of pursuing, possessing, or
taking any wildlife regulated by statute, law, regulation, ordinance, or
administrative rule of a participating state.
(9)  "Licensing authority" means the department or division within each
participating state which is authorized by law to issue or approve licenses or
permits to hunt, fish, trap, or possess wildlife.
(10)  "Participating state" means any state which enacts legislation to become
a member of this wildlife compact.
(11)  "Personal recognizance" means an agreement by a person made at the time
of issuance of the wildlife citation that the person will comply with the
terms of the citation.
(12)  "State" means a state, territory, or possession of the United States,
the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the provinces of
Canada, and the other countries.
(13)  "Suspension" means a revocation, denial, or withdrawal of any or all
license privileges, including the privilege to apply for, purchase, or
exercise the benefits conferred by any license.
(14)  "Wildlife" means species of animals including, but not limited to,
mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians, mollusks, and crustaceans, which
are defined as "wildlife" and are protected or otherwise regulated by statute,
law, regulation, ordinance, or administrative rule in a participating state.
Species included in the definition of "wildlife" vary from state to state and
determination of whether a species is "wildlife" for the purpose of this
compact shall be based on local law.
(15)  "Wildlife law" means any statute, law, regulation, ordinance, or
administrative rule developed and enacted for the management and use of
wildlife resources.
(16)  "Wildlife officer" means an individual authorized by a participating
state to issue a citation for a wildlife violation.
(17)  "Wildlife violation" means a cited violation of a statute, law,
regulation, ordinance, or administrative rule developed and enacted for the
management and use of wildlife resources.
