23-25-8.   Compact administrator procedures.
(1) (a)  A Board of Compact Administrators is established to:
(i)  administer the provisions of this compact; and
(ii)  serve as a governing body for the resolution of all matters relating to
the operation of this compact.
(b)  The board shall be composed of one representative from each of the
participating states to be known as the compact administrator.
(c)  The compact administrator shall be appointed by the head of the licensing
authority of each participating state and shall serve and be subject to
removal in accordance with the laws of the state he represents.
(d)  A compact administrator may provide for the discharge of his duties and
the performance of his function as a board member by an alternate.
(e)  An alternate shall not be entitled to serve unless written notification
of his identity has been given to the board.
(2) (a)  Each member of the board of compact administrators shall be entitled
to one vote.
(b)  An action of the board shall not be binding unless taken at a meeting at
which a majority of the total number of the board's votes are cast in favor
thereof.
(c)  Action by the board shall be only at a meeting at which a majority of the
participating states are represented.
(3)  The board shall elect annually from its membership a chairman and vice-
chairman.
(4)  The board shall adopt bylaws not inconsistent with the provisions of this
compact or the laws of a participating state for the conduct of its business
and shall have the power to amend and rescind its bylaws.
(5)  The board may accept for any of its purposes and functions under this
compact any and all donations and grants of monies, equipment, supplies,
materials, and services, conditional or otherwise, from any state, the United
States, or any governmental agency, and may receive, utilize, and dispose of
the donations and grants.
(6)  The board may contract with, or accept services or personnel from, any
governmental or intergovernmental agency, individual, firm, or corporation, or
any private nonprofit organization or institution.
(7)  The board shall formulate all necessary procedures and develop uniform
forms and documents for administering the provisions of this compact.  All
procedures and forms adopted to board action shall be contained in a compact
manual.
