53-1-119.   Tracking effects of abuse of alcoholic products.

(1)  There is created a committee within the department known as the "Alcohol Abuse Tracking Committee" that consists of:

(a)  the commissioner, or the commissioner's designee;

(b)  the executive director of the Department of Health, or the executive director's designee;

(c)  the executive director of the Department of Human Services, or the executive director's designee;

(d)  the director of the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, or the director's designee;

(e)  the executive director of the Department of Workforce Services, or the executive director's designee;

(f)  the chair of the Utah Substance Abuse Advisory Council, or the chair's designee;

(g)  the state court administrator or the state court administrator's designee; and

(h)  the executive director of the Department of Technology Services, or the executive director's designee.

(2)  The commissioner, or the commissioner's designee, shall chair the committee.

(3) (a)  Four members of the committee constitute a quorum.

(b)  A vote of the majority of the committee members present when a quorum is present is an action of the committee.

(4)  The committee shall meet at the call of the chair, except that the chair shall call a meeting at least quarterly.

(5)  The committee may adopt additional procedures or requirements for:

(a)  voting, when there is a tie of the committee members;

(b)  how meetings are to be called; and

(c)  the frequency of meetings.

(6)  The committee shall establish a process to collect for each fiscal year the following information:

(a)  the number of individuals statewide who are convicted of, plead guilty to, plead no contest to, plead guilty in a similar manner to, or resolve by diversion or its equivalent to a violation related to underage drinking of alcohol;

(b)  the number of individuals statewide who are convicted of, plead guilty to, plead no contest to, plead guilty in a similar manner to, or resolve by diversion or its equivalent to a violation related to driving under the influence of alcohol;

(c)  the number of violations statewide of Title 32B, Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, related to over-serving or over-consumption of an alcoholic product;

(d)  the cost of social services provided by the state related to abuse of alcohol, including services provided by the Division of Child and Family Services within the Department of Human Services;

(e)  where the alcoholic products are obtained that results in the violations or costs described in Subsections (6)(a) through (d); and

(f)  any information the committee determines can be collected and relates to the abuse of alcoholic products.

(7) (a)  The committee shall begin to collect the information described in Subsection (6) by January 1, 2013.  For fiscal year 2012-13, the committee is required only to report the information collected between January 1, 2013 and June 30, 2013.

(b)  Beginning December 31, 2013, the committee shall report the information collected under Subsection (6) annually to the governor and Legislature by no later than the December 31 immediately following the fiscal year for which the information is collected.

(8)  Prior to the October 2012 Interim meeting of the Business and Labor Interim Committee, the committee shall report to the Business and Labor Interim Committee:

(a)  a list of information to be collected;

(b)  standards to be used in collecting the information;

(c)  criteria to be used in determining the level and extent that alcohol is related or contributed to the activities for which data is to be collected; and

(d)  how the collection of data will verify the presence of alcohol, blood alcohol levels, and differentiate between persons using other substances of impairment and persons consuming alcoholic beverages.

