41-1a-205 (Superseded 01/01/13).   Safety inspection certificate required for renewal or registration of motor vehicle -- Exemptions.

(1)  If required in the current year, a safety inspection certificate, as required by Section 53-8-205, or proof of exemption from safety inspection shall be presented at the time of, and as a condition of, registration or renewal of registration of a motor vehicle.

(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsections (2)(b), (c), and (d), the safety inspection required under this section may be made no more than two months prior to the renewal of registration.

(b) (i)  If the title of a used motor vehicle is being transferred, a safety inspection certificate issued for the motor vehicle during the previous two months may be used to satisfy the requirement under Subsection (1).

(ii)  If the transferor is a licensed and bonded used motor vehicle dealer, a safety inspection certificate issued for the motor vehicle in a licensed and bonded motor vehicle dealer's name during the previous six months may be used to satisfy the requirement under Subsection (1).

(c)  If the title of a leased vehicle is being transferred to the lessee of the vehicle, a safety inspection certificate issued during the previous six months may be used to satisfy the requirement under Subsection (1).

(d)  If the motor vehicle is part of a fleet of 101 or more vehicles, the safety inspection required under this section may be made no more than 11 months prior to the renewal of registration.

(3) (a)  The following motor vehicles are exempt from this section:

(i)  except as provided in Subsection (3)(b), a new motor vehicle when registered the first time, if:

(A)  a new car predelivery inspection has been made by a dealer;

(B)  the dealer provides a written disclosure statement listing any known deficiency, existing with the new motor vehicle at the time of delivery, that would cause the motor vehicle to fail a safety inspection given in accordance with Section 53-8-205; and

(C)  the buyer signs the disclosure statement to acknowledge that the buyer has read and understands the listed deficiencies;

(ii)  a motor vehicle required to be registered under this chapter that bears a dealer plate or other special plate under Title 41, Chapter 3, Part 5, Special Dealer License Plates, except that if the motor vehicle is propelled by its own power and is not being moved for repair or dismantling, the motor vehicle shall comply with Section 41-6a-1601 regarding safe mechanical condition; and

(iii)  a vintage vehicle as defined in Section 41-21-1.

(b)  A street-legal all-terrain vehicle registered in accordance with Section 41-6a-1509 is subject to a safety inspection the first time that a person registers an off-highway vehicle as a street-legal all-terrain vehicle.

(4) (a)  A safety inspection certificate shall be displayed on:

(i)  all registered commercial motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,000 pounds or more;

(ii)  a motor vehicle with three or more axles, pulling a trailer, or pulling a trailer with multiple axles;

(iii)  a combination unit; and

(iv)  a bus or van for hire.

(b)  A commercial vehicle under Subsection (4)(a) is exempt from the requirements of Subsection (1).

(5)  A motor vehicle may be sold and the title assigned to the new owner without a valid safety inspection, but the motor vehicle may not be registered in the new owner's name until the motor vehicle complies with this section.

