41-1a-222.   Application for multiyear registration -- Payment of taxes -- Penalties.

(1)  The owner of any intrastate fleet of commercial vehicles which is based in the state may apply to the commission for registration in accordance with this section.

(a)  The application shall be made on a form prescribed by the commission.

(b)  Upon payment of required fees and meeting other requirements prescribed by the commission, the division shall issue, to each vehicle for which application has been made, a multiyear license plate and registration card.

(i)  The license plate decal and the registration card shall bear an expiration date fixed by the division and are valid until ownership of the vehicle to which they are issued is transferred by the applicant or until the expiration date, whichever comes first.

(ii)  An annual renewal application must be made by the owner if registration identification has been issued on an annual installment fee basis and the required fees must be paid on an annual basis.

(iii)  License plates and registration cards issued pursuant to this section are valid for an eight-year period, commencing with the year of initial application in this state.

(c)  When application for registration or renewal is made on an installment payment basis, the applicant shall submit acceptable evidence of a surety bond in a form, and with a surety, approved by the commission and in an amount equal to the total annual fees required for all vehicles registered to the applicant in accordance with this section.

(2)  Each vehicle registered as part of a fleet of commercial vehicles must be titled in the name of the fleet.

(3)  Each owner who registers fleets pursuant to this section shall pay the taxes or in lieu fees otherwise due pursuant to:

(a)  Section 41-1a-206;

(b)  Section 41-1a-207;

(c)  Subsection 41-1a-301(11);

(d)  Section 59-2-405.1;

(e)  Section 59-2-405.2; or

(f)  Section 59-2-405.3.

(4)  An owner who fails to comply with the provisions of this section is subject to the penalties in Section 41-1a-1301 and, if the commission so determines, will result in the loss of the privileges granted in this section.



Amended by Chapter 217, 2005 General Session 

Amended by Chapter 244, 2005 General Session

