41-1a-402.   Required colors, numerals, and letters -- Expiration.

(1)  Each license plate shall have displayed on it:

(a)  the registration number assigned to the vehicle for which it is issued;

(b)  the name of the state; and

(c)  a registration decal showing the date of expiration displayed in accordance with Subsection (6).

(2)  If registration is extended by affixing a registration decal to the license plate, the expiration date of the decal governs the expiration date of the license plate.

(3)  Except as provided in Subsection (4), each original license plate that is not one of the special group license plates issued under Section 41-1a-418 shall be a:

(a)  statehood centennial license plate with the same color, design, and slogan as the plates issued in conjunction with the statehood centennial; or

(b)  Ski Utah license plate.

(4)  Beginning on the date that the division determines the existing inventories of statehood centennial license plates and Ski Utah license plates are exhausted, each license plate that is not one of the special group license plates issued under Section 41-1a-418 shall:

(a)  display the "Life Elevated" slogan; and

(b)  have a color and design approved by the 57th Legislature in the 2007 General Session that features:

(i)  a skier with the "Greatest Snow on Earth" slogan; or

(ii)  Delicate Arch.

(5) (a)  Except as provided under Subsection 41-1a-215(2), license plates shall be renewed annually.

(b) (i) The division shall issue the vehicle owner a month decal and a year decal upon the vehicle's first registration with the division.

(ii)  The division shall issue the vehicle owner only a year decal upon subsequent renewals of registration to validate registration renewal.

(6)  The decals issued in accordance with Subsection (5) shall be applied as follows:

(a)  for license plates issued beginning in 1974 through 1985, decals displayed on license plates with black lettering on a white background shall be applied to the lower left-hand corner of the rear of the license plate vehicles;

(b)  decals displayed on statehood centennial license plates and on Ski Utah license plates issued in accordance with Subsection (3) shall be applied to the upper left-hand corner of the rear license plate;

(c)  decals displayed on special group license plates issued in accordance with Section 41-1a-418 shall be applied to the upper right-hand corner of the license plate unless there is a plate indentation on the upper left-hand corner of the license plate;

(d)  decals displayed on license plates with the "Life Elevated" slogan issued in accordance with Subsection (4) shall be applied in the upper left-hand corner for the month decal and the upper right-hand corner for the year decal;

(e)  decals issued for truck tractors shall be applied to the front license plate in the position described in Subsection (6)(a), (b), or (d);

(f)  decals issued for motorcycles shall be applied to the upper corner of the license plate opposite the word "Utah"; and

(g)  decals displayed on license plates issued under Section 41-1a-416 shall be applied as appropriate for the year of the plate.

(7) (a)  The month decal issued in accordance with Subsection (5) shall be displayed on the license plate in the left position.

(b)  The year decal issued in accordance with Subsection (5) shall be displayed on the license plate in the right position.

(8)  The current year decal issued in accordance with Subsection (5) shall be placed over the previous year decal.

(9)  If a license plate, month decal, or year decal is lost or destroyed, a replacement shall be issued upon application and payment of the fees required under Section 41-1a-1211 or 41-1a-1212.

