41-1a-419.   Plate design -- Vintage vehicle certification and registration
-- Personalized special group license plates -- Rulemaking.
(1) (a)  The design and maximum number of numerals or characters on special
group license plates shall be determined by the division in accordance with
the requirements under Subsection (1)(b).
(b)  Each special group license plate shall display:
(i)  the word Utah;
(ii)  the name or identifying slogan of the special group;
(iii)  a symbol decal not exceeding two positions in size representing the
special group; and
(iv)  the combination of letters, numbers, or both uniquely identifying the
registered vehicle.
(2) (a)  The division shall, after consultation with a representative
designated by the special group, specify the word or words comprising the
special group name and the symbol decal to be displayed upon the special group
license plates.
(b)  A special group license plate symbol decal may not be redesigned:
(i)  unless the division receives a redesign fee established by the division
under Section 63J-1-504; and
(ii)  more frequently than every five years.
(c) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(c)(ii), a special group license
plate symbol decal may not be reordered unless the division receives a symbol
decal reorder fee established by the division under Section 63J-1-504.
(ii)  A recognition special group license plate symbol decal for a currently
employed, volunteer, or retired firefighter issued in accordance with
Subsection 41-1a-418(1)(d)(v) that is reordered on or after July 1, 2007, but
on or before June 30, 2008, is exempt from the symbol decal reorder fee
authorized under Subsection (2)(c)(i).
(3)  The license plates issued for horseless carriages prior to July 1, 1992,
are valid without renewal as long as the vehicle is owned by the registered
owner and the license plates may not be recalled by the division.
(4)  A person who meets the criteria established under Sections 41-1a-418
through 41-1a-422 for issuance of special group license plates may make
application in the same manner provided in Sections 41-1a-410 and 41-1a-411
for personalized special group license plates.
(5)  The commission shall make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to:
(a)  establish qualifying criteria for persons to receive, renew, or surrender
special group license plates; and
(b)  establish the maximum number of numerals or characters for special group
license plates.
