41-1a-420.   Disability special group license plates -- Application and
qualifications -- Rulemaking.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Advanced practice registered nurse" means a person licensed to practice
as an advanced practice registered nurse in this state under Title 58, Chapter
31b, Nurse Practice Act.
(b)  "Nurse practitioner" means an advanced practice registered nurse
specializing as a nurse practitioner.
(c)  "Physician" means a person licensed to practice as a physician or
osteopath in this state under Title 58, Chapter 67, Utah Medical Practice Act
or Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act.
(2)  The division shall issue a disability special group license plate, a
temporary removable windshield placard, or a removable windshield placard to:
(a)  a qualifying person with a disability; or
(b)  the registered owner of a vehicle that an organization uses primarily for
the transportation of persons with disabilities that limit or impair the
ability to walk.
(3) (a)  The initial application of a person with a disability shall be
accompanied by the certification of a physician or nurse practitioner:
(i)  that the applicant meets the definition of a person with a disability
that limits or impairs the ability to walk as defined in the federal Uniform
System for Parking for Persons with Disabilities, 23 C.F.R. Ch. II, Subch. B,
Pt. 1235.2 (1991); and
(ii) specifying the period of time that the physician or nurse practitioner
determines the applicant will have the disability, not to exceed six months in
the case of a temporary disability.
(b)  The division shall issue a disability special group license plate or a
removable windshield placard to a person with a permanent disability.
(c)  The issuance of a person with a disability special group license plate
does not preclude the issuance to the same applicant of a removable windshield
placard.
(d)  On request of an applicant with a disability special group license plate,
temporary removable windshield placard, or a removable windshield placard the
division shall issue one additional placard.
(e)  A disability special group license plate, temporary removable windshield
placard, or removable windshield placard may be used to allow one motorcycle
to share a parking space reserved for persons with a disability if:
(i)  the person with a disability:
(A)  is using a motorcycle; and
(B)  displays on the motorcycle a disability special group license plate,
temporary removable windshield placard, or a removable windshield placard;
(ii)  the person who shares the parking space assists the person with a
disability with the parking accommodation; and
(iii)  the parking space is sufficient size to accommodate both motorcycles
without interfering with other parking spaces or traffic movement.
(4) (a)  The temporary removable windshield placard or removable windshield
placard shall be hung from the front windshield rearview mirror when the
vehicle is parked in a parking space reserved for persons with disabilities so
that it is visible from the front and rear of the vehicle.
(b)  If a motorcycle is being used, the temporary removable windshield placard
or removable windshield placard shall be displayed in plain sight on or near
the handle bars of the motorcycle.
(5)  The commission shall make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3,
Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, to:
(a)  establish qualifying criteria for persons to receive, renew, or surrender
special group license plates, a temporary removable windshield placard, or a
removable windshield placard in accordance with this section;
(b)  establish the maximum number of numerals or characters for disability
special group license plates; and
(c)  require all temporary removable windshield placards and removable
windshield placards to include:
(i)  an identification number;
(ii)  an expiration date not to exceed:
(A)  six months for a temporary removable windshield placard; and
(B)  two years for a removable windshield placard; and
(iii)  the seal or other identifying mark of the division.
