41-1a-421.   Honor special group license plates -- Personal identity requirements.

(1) (a)  The requirements of this Subsection (1) apply to a vehicle displaying a:

(i)  survivor of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor license plate;

(ii)  former prisoner of war license plate;

(iii)  Purple Heart license plate; or

(iv)  disabled veteran license plate.

(b)  The vehicle shall be titled in the name of the veteran or the veteran and spouse.

(c)  Upon the death of the veteran, the surviving spouse may, upon application to the division, retain the special group license plate decal so long as the surviving spouse remains unmarried.

(d)  The division shall require the surviving spouse to make a sworn statement that the surviving spouse is unmarried before renewing the registration under this section.

(2)  Proper evidence of a Purple Heart is either:

(a)  a membership card in the Military Order of the Purple Heart; or

(b)  an original or certificate in lieu of the applicant's military discharge form, DD-214, issued by the National Personnel Records Center.

(3)  The Purple Heart license plates shall bear:

(a)  the words "Purple Heart" at the bottom of the plate;

(b)  a logo substantially depicting a Purple Heart award; and

(c)  the letter and number combinations assigned by the division.

(4)  Proper evidence that a person is a disabled veteran is a written document issued by a military entity certifying that the person is disabled as a result of service in a branch of the United States Military.

(5)  A disabled veteran seeking a disabled veteran license plate shall request the Department of Veterans' Affairs to provide the verification required under Subsection (4).

(6) (a)  An applicant for a gold star license plate shall submit written documentation that the applicant is a recipient of a gold star award issued by the United States Secretary of Defense.

(b)  Written documentation under Subsection (6)(a) may include any of the following:

(i)  a death certificate;

(ii)  documentation showing classification of death as listed by the United States Secretary of Defense;

(iii)  a casualty report;

(iv)  a telegram from the United States Secretary of Defense or one of the branches of the United States armed forces; or

(v)  other documentation that verifies the applicant meets the requirements of Subsection (6)(a).

