41-1a-422 (Superseded 10/01/09).   Support special group license plates --
Contributor -- Voluntary contribution collection procedures.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(a)(ii), "contributor" means a
person who has donated or in whose name at least $25 has been donated to:
(A)  a scholastic scholarship fund of a single named institution;
(B)  the Department of Veterans' Affairs for veterans' programs;
(C)  the Division of Wildlife Resources for the Wildlife Resources Account
created in Section 23-14-13, for conservation of wildlife and the enhancement,
preservation, protection, access, and management of wildlife habitat;
(D)  the Department of Agriculture and Food for the benefit of conservation
districts;
(E)  the Division of Parks and Recreation for the benefit of snowmobile
programs;
(F)  the Guardian Ad Litem Services Account and the Children's Museum of Utah,
with the donation evenly divided between the two;
(G)  the Boy Scouts of America for the benefit of a Utah Boy Scouts of America
council as specified by the contributor;
(H)  No More Homeless Pets in Utah for distribution to organizations or
individuals that provide spay and neuter programs that subsidize the
sterilization of domestic animals;
(I)  the Utah Alliance of Boys and Girls Clubs, Inc. to provide and enhance
youth development programs;
(J)  the Utah Association of Public School Foundations to support public
education;
(K)  the Utah Housing Opportunity Restricted Account created in Section
61-2-28 to assist people who have severe housing needs;
(L)  the Public Safety Honoring Heroes Restricted Account created in Section
53-1-118 to support the families of fallen Utah Highway Patrol troopers and
other Department of Public Safety employees;
(M)  the Division of Parks and Recreation for distribution to organizations
that provide support for Zion National Park; or
(N)  the Firefighter Support Restricted Account created in Section 53-7-109 to
support firefighter organizations.
(ii) (A)  For a veterans' special group license plate, "contributor" means a
person who has donated or in whose name at least a $25 donation at the time of
application and $10 annual donation thereafter has been made.
(B)  For a Utah Housing Opportunity special group license plate, "contributor"
means a person who:
(I)  has donated or in whose name at least $30 has been donated at the time of
application and annually after the time of application; and
(II)  is a member of a trade organization for real estate licensees that has
more than 15,000 Utah members.
(C)  For an Honoring Heroes special group license plate, "contributor" means a
person who has donated or in whose name at least $35 has been donated at the
time of application and annually thereafter.
(D)  For a firefighter support special group license plate, "contributor"
means a person who:
(I)  has donated or in whose name at least $15 has been donated at the time of
application and annually after the time of application; and
(II)  is a currently employed, volunteer, or retired firefighter.
(b)  "Institution" means a state institution of higher education as defined
under Section 53B-3-102 or a private institution of higher education in the
state accredited by a regional or national accrediting agency recognized by
the United States Department of Education.
(2) (a)  An applicant for original or renewal collegiate special group license
plates under Subsection (1)(a)(i) must be a contributor to the institution
named in the application and present the original contribution verification
form under Subsection (2)(b) or make a contribution to the division at the
time of application under Subsection (3).
(b)  An institution with a support special group license plate shall issue to
a contributor a verification form designed by the commission containing:
(i)  the name of the contributor;
(ii)  the institution to which a donation was made;
(iii)  the date of the donation; and
(iv)  an attestation that the donation was for a scholastic scholarship.
(c)  The state auditor may audit each institution to verify that the moneys
collected by the institutions from contributors are used for scholastic
scholarships.
(d)  After an applicant has been issued collegiate license plates or renewal
decals, the commission shall charge the institution whose plate was issued, a
fee determined in accordance with Section 63J-1-504 for management and
administrative expenses incurred in issuing and renewing the collegiate
license plates.
(e)  If the contribution is made at the time of application, the contribution
shall be collected, treated, and deposited as provided under Subsection (3).
(3) (a)  An applicant for original or renewal support special group license
plates under this section must be a contributor to the sponsoring organization
associated with the license plate.
(b)  This contribution shall be:
(i)  unless collected by the named institution under Subsection (2), collected
by the division;
(ii)  considered a voluntary contribution for the funding of the activities
specified under this section and not a motor vehicle registration fee;
(iii)  deposited into the appropriate account less actual administrative costs
associated with issuing the license plates; and
(iv)  for a firefighter special group license plate, deposited into the
appropriate account less:
(A)  the costs of reordering firefighter special group license plate decals;
and
(B)  the costs of replacing recognition special group license plates with new
license plates under Subsection 41-1a-1211(13).
(c)  The donation described in Subsection (1)(a) must be made in the 12 months
prior to registration or renewal of registration.
(d)  The donation described in Subsection (1)(a) shall be a one-time donation
made to the division when issuing original:
(i)  snowmobile license plates; or
(ii)  conservation license plates.
(4)  Veterans' license plates shall display one of the symbols representing
the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard, or American Legion.
