41-1a-1001.   Definitions.

As used in Sections 41-1a-1001 through 41-1a-1008:

(1)  "Certified vehicle inspector" means a person employed by the Motor Vehicle Enforcement Division as qualified through experience, training, or both to identify and analyze damage to vehicles with either unibody or conventional frames.

(2)  "Major component part" means:

(a)  the front body component of a motor vehicle consisting of the structure forward of the firewall;

(b)  the passenger body component of a motor vehicle including the firewall, roof, and extending to and including the rear-most seating;

(c)  the rear body component of a motor vehicle consisting of the main cross member directly behind the rear-most seating excluding any auxiliary seating and structural body assembly rear of the cross members; and

(d)  the frame of a motor vehicle consisting of the structural member that supports the auto body.

(3) (a)  "Major damage" means damage to a major component part of the motor vehicle requiring 10 or more hours to repair or replace, as determined by a collision estimating guide recognized by the Motor Vehicle Enforcement Division.

(b)  For purposes of Subsection (3)(a) repair or replacement hours do not include time spent on cosmetic repairs.

(4)  "Nonrepairable certificate" means a certificate of ownership issued for a nonrepairable vehicle.

(5)  "Nonrepairable vehicle" means a vehicle of a type otherwise subject to registration that:

(a)  has no resale value except as a source of parts or scrap metal or that the owner irreversibly designates as a source of parts or scrap metal or for destruction;

(b) (i)  has little or no resale value other than its worth as a source of a vehicle identification number that could be used illegally; and

(ii) (A)  has been substantially stripped as a result of theft; or

(B)  is missing all of the bolt-on sheet metal body panels, all of the doors and hatches, substantially all of the interior components, and substantially all of the grill and light assemblies; or

(c)  is a substantially burned vehicle that:

(i)  has burned to the extent that there are no more usable or repairable body or interior components, tires and wheels, or drive train components; or

(ii)  the owner irreversibly designates for destruction or as having little or no resale value other than its worth as a source of scrap metal or as a source of a vehicle identification number that could be used illegally.

(6)  "Owner" means the person who has the legal right to possession of the vehicle.

(7) (a)  "Salvage certificate" means a certificate of ownership issued for a salvage vehicle before a new certificate of title is issued for the vehicle.

(b)  A salvage certificate is not valid for registration purposes.

(8)  "Salvage vehicle" means any vehicle:

(a)  damaged by collision, flood, or other occurrence to the extent that the cost of repairing the vehicle for safe operation exceeds its fair market value; or

(b)  that has been declared a salvage vehicle by an insurer or other state or jurisdiction, but is not precluded from further registration and titling.

(9)  "Unbranded title" means a certificate of title for a previously damaged motor vehicle without any designation that the motor vehicle has been damaged.

(10)  "Vehicle damage disclosure statement" means the form designed and furnished by the Motor Vehicle Enforcement Division for a damaged motor vehicle inspection under Section 41-1a-1002.



Amended by Chapter 390, 2012 General Session

