41-1a-1101.   Seizure -- Circumstances where permitted -- Impound lot standards.

(1) (a)  The division or any peace officer, without a warrant, may seize and take possession of any vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor:

(i)  that the division or the peace officer has reason to believe has been stolen;

(ii)  on which any identification number has been defaced, altered, or obliterated;

(iii)  that has been abandoned in accordance with Section 41-6a-1408;

(iv)  for which the applicant has written a check for registration or title fees that has not been honored by the applicant's bank and that is not paid within 30 days;

(v)  that is placed on the water with improper registration;

(vi)  that is being operated on a highway:

(A)  with registration that has been expired for more than three months;

(B)  having never been properly registered by the current owner;

(C)  with registration that is suspended or revoked; or

(D)  subject to the restriction in Subsection (1)(b), without owner's or operator's security in effect for the vehicle as required under Section 41-12a-301; or

(vii) (A)  that the division or the peace officer has reason to believe has been involved in an accident described in Section 41-6a-401, 41-6a-401.3, or 41-6a-401.5; and

(B)  whose operator did not remain at the scene of the accident until the operator fulfilled the requirements described in Section 41-6a-401 or 41-6a-401.7.

(b)  The division or any peace officer may not seize and take possession of a vehicle under Subsection (1)(a)(vi)(D) if the operator of the vehicle is not carrying evidence of owner's or operator's security as defined in Section 41-12a-303.2 in the vehicle unless the division or peace officer verifies that owner's or operator's security is not in effect for the vehicle through the Uninsured Motorist Identification Database created in accordance with Section 41-12a-803.

(2)  If necessary for the transportation of a seized vessel, the vessel's trailer may be seized to transport and store the vessel.

(3)  Any peace officer seizing or taking possession of a vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor under this section shall comply with the provisions of Section 41-6a-1406.

(4) (a)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the commission shall make rules setting standards for public garages, impound lots, and impound yards that may be used by peace officers and the division.

(b)  The standards shall be equitable, reasonable, and unrestrictive as to the number of public garages, impound lots, or impound yards per geographical area.

(5) (a)  Except as provided under Subsection (5)(b), a person may not operate or allow to be operated a vehicle stored in a public garage, impound lot, or impound yard regulated under this part without prior written permission of the owner of the vehicle.

(b)  Incidental and necessary operation of a vehicle to move the vehicle from one parking space to another within the facility and that is necessary for the normal management of the facility is not prohibited under Subsection (5)(a).

(6)  A person who violates the provisions of Subsection (5) is guilty of a class C misdemeanor.

(7)  The division or the peace officer who seizes a vehicle shall record the mileage shown on the vehicle's odometer at the time of seizure, if:

(a)  the vehicle is equipped with an odometer; and

(b)  the odometer reading is accessible to the division or the peace officer.



Amended by Chapter 246, 2011 General Session

