41-1a-1222.   Local option highway construction and transportation corridor
preservation fee -- Exemptions -- Deposit -- Transfer -- County ordinance --
Notice.
(1) (a) (i)  A county legislative body may impose a local option highway
construction and transportation corridor preservation fee of up to $10 on each
motor vehicle registration within the county.
(ii)  A fee imposed under Subsection (1)(a)(i) shall be set in whole dollar
increments.
(b)  If imposed under Subsection (1)(a), at the time application is made for
registration or renewal of registration of a motor vehicle under this chapter,
the applicant shall pay the local option highway construction and
transportation corridor preservation fee established by the county legislative
body.
(c)  The following are exempt from the fee required under Subsection (1)(a):
(i)  a motor vehicle that is exempt from the registration fee under Section
41-1a-1209 or Subsection 41-1a-419(3);
(ii)  a commercial vehicle with an apportioned registration under Section
41-1a-301; and
(iii)  a motor vehicle with a Purple Heart special group license plate issued
in accordance with Section 41-1a-421.
(2) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), the revenue generated under
this section shall be:
(i)  deposited in the Local Transportation Corridor Preservation Fund created
in Section 72-2-117.5;
(ii)  credited to the county from which it is generated; and
(iii)  used and distributed in accordance with Section 72-2-117.5.
(b) The revenue generated by a fee imposed under this section in a county of
the first class shall be deposited or transferred as follows:
(i)  50% of the revenue shall be:
(A)  deposited in the County of the First Class State Highway Projects Fund
created in Section 72-2-121; and
(B)  used in accordance with Section 72-2-121;
(ii)  20% of the revenue shall be:
(A)  transferred to the legislative body of a city of the first class:
(I)  located in a county of the first class; and
(II)  that has:
(Aa)  an international airport within its boundaries; and
(Bb)  a United States customs office on the premises of the international
airport described in Subsection (2)(b)(ii)(A)(II)(Aa); and
(B)  used by the city described in Subsection (2)(b)(ii)(A) for highway
construction, reconstruction, or maintenance projects; and
(iii)  30% of the revenue shall be deposited, credited, and used as provided
in Subsection (2)(a).
(3)  To impose or change the amount of a fee under this section, the county
legislative body shall pass an ordinance:
(a)  approving the fee;
(b)  setting the amount of the fee; and
(c)  providing an effective date for the fee as provided in Subsection (4).
(4) (a)  If a county legislative body enacts, changes, or repeals a fee under
this section, the enactment, change, or repeal shall take effect on July 1 if
the commission receives notice meeting the requirements of Subsection (4)(b)
from the county prior to April 1.
(b)  The notice described in Subsection (4)(a) shall:
(i)  state that the county will enact, change, or repeal a fee under this
part;
(ii)  include a copy of the ordinance imposing the fee; and
(iii)  if the county enacts or changes the fee under this section, state the
amount of the fee.
