41-1a-1401.   Report of stolen and recovered vehicles, vessels, and outboard motors by officials.

(1) (a)  A peace officer, upon receiving reliable information that a vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor has been stolen, shall immediately report the theft to the Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division of the Department of Public Safety, established in Section 53-10-103.

(b)  An officer, upon receiving information that a vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor, which he has previously reported as stolen, has been recovered, shall immediately report the recovery to the local law enforcement agency and to the Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division.

(2)  A report of a stolen vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor taken by a law enforcement agency shall include a written advisement to the reporting party of the provisions of Section 76-8-506, and a statement affirming the theft of the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor signed by the person reporting the theft and witnessed by the person taking the report.

(3)  The following information regarding the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor shall be included in the report and shall be sent to the Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division:

(a)  the registered owner;

(b)  the person reporting the theft;

(c)  the year, make, model, and color;

(d)  the identification number;

(e)  the estimated present value;

(f)  the license number and state of registration;

(g)  the date, time, and place of the theft; and

(h)  the name, address, telephone number, policy number, and agent's name of the insurance company insuring the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor.

(4)  If a member of any law enforcement agency confirms that a stolen vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor has been recovered, he shall send the following information regarding the recovered vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor to the Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division:

(a)  the date, time, and place of recovery;

(b)  the condition of the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor; and

(c)  the names of peace officers and any other persons involved in the recovery.

(5) (a)  Upon receipt of a report of a stolen vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor, the Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division shall place a notice of theft in the master file computer.

(b)  Upon receipt of a report that a stolen vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor has been recovered, the Criminal Investigations and Technical Services Division shall remove the notice of theft of the vehicle, vessel, or outboard motor from the master file computer.

(6) (a)  Except as provided in Section 41-1a-1005, the division shall refuse to register or transfer title to a stolen vehicle until the vehicle is recovered.

(b) (i)  If the recovered vehicle is a salvage vehicle as defined in Section 41-1a-1001, then Title 41, Chapter 1a, Part 10, Salvage Vehicles - Junk and Dismantled Vehicles, applies.

(ii)  The division may issue an unbranded certificate of title for a recovered vehicle if the vehicle has not suffered major damage in more than one major component part.

