19-6-102.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Board" means the Solid and Hazardous Waste Control Board created in
Section 19-1-106.
(2)  "Closure plan" means a plan under Section 19-6-108 to close a facility or
site at which the owner or operator has disposed of nonhazardous solid waste
or has treated, stored, or disposed of hazardous waste including, if
applicable, a plan to provide postclosure care at the facility or site.
(3) (a)  "Commercial nonhazardous solid waste treatment, storage, or disposal
facility" means a facility that receives, for profit, nonhazardous solid waste
for treatment, storage, or disposal.
(b)  "Commercial nonhazardous solid waste treatment, storage, or disposal
facility" does not include a facility that:
(i)  receives waste for recycling;
(ii)  receives waste to be used as fuel, in compliance with federal and state
requirements; or
(iii)  is solely under contract with a local government within the state to
dispose of nonhazardous solid waste generated within the boundaries of the
local government.
(4)  "Construction waste or demolition waste":
(a)  means waste from building materials, packaging, and rubble resulting from
construction, demolition, remodeling, and repair of pavements, houses,
commercial buildings, and other structures, and from road building and land
clearing; and
(b)  does not include: asbestos; contaminated soils or tanks resulting from
remediation or cleanup at any release or spill; waste paints; solvents;
sealers; adhesives; or similar hazardous or potentially hazardous materials.
(5)  "Demolition waste" has the same meaning as the definition of construction
waste in this section.
(6)  "Disposal" means the discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling,
leaking, or placing of any solid or hazardous waste into or on any land or
water so that the waste or any constituent of the waste may enter the
environment, be emitted into the air, or discharged into any waters, including
groundwaters.
(7)  "Executive secretary" means the executive secretary of the board.
(8)  "Generation" or "generated" means the act or process of producing
nonhazardous solid or hazardous waste.
(9)  "Hazardous waste" means a solid waste or combination of solid wastes
other than household waste which, because of its quantity, concentration, or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause or significantly
contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible
or incapacitating reversible illness or may pose a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated,
stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
(10)  "Health facility" means hospitals, psychiatric hospitals, home health
agencies, hospices, skilled nursing facilities, intermediate care facilities,
intermediate care facilities for the mentally retarded, residential health
care facilities, maternity homes or birthing centers, free standing ambulatory
surgical centers, facilities owned or operated by health maintenance
organizations, and state renal disease treatment centers including free
standing hemodialysis units, the offices of private physicians and dentists
whether for individual or private practice, veterinary clinics, and
mortuaries.
(11)  "Household waste" means any waste material, including garbage, trash,
and sanitary wastes in septic tanks, derived from households, including
single-family and multiple-family residences, hotels and motels, bunk houses,
ranger stations, crew quarters, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day-use
recreation areas.
(12)  "Infectious waste" means a solid waste that contains or may reasonably
be expected to contain pathogens of sufficient virulence and quantity that
exposure to the waste by a susceptible host could result in an infectious
disease.
(13)  "Manifest" means the form used for identifying the quantity,
composition, origin, routing, and destination of hazardous waste during its
transportation from the point of generation to the point of disposal,
treatment, or storage.
(14)  "Mixed waste" means any material that is a hazardous waste as defined in
this chapter and is also radioactive as defined in Section 19-3-102.
(15)  "Modification plan" means a plan under Section 19-6-108 to modify a
facility or site for the purpose of disposing of nonhazardous solid waste or
treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste.
(16)  "Operation plan" or "nonhazardous solid or hazardous waste operation
plan" means a plan or approval under Section 19-6-108, including:
(a)  a plan to own, construct, or operate a facility or site for the purpose
of disposing of nonhazardous solid waste or treating, storing, or disposing of
hazardous waste;
(b)  a closure plan;
(c)  a modification plan; or
(d)  an approval that the executive secretary is authorized to issue.
(17)  "Permittee" means a person who is obligated under an operation plan.
(18) (a)  "Solid waste" means any garbage, refuse, sludge, including sludge
from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution
control facility, or other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semi-
solid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial,
mining, or agricultural operations and from community activities but does not
include solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or in irrigation
return flows or discharges for which a permit is required under Title 19,
Chapter 5, Water Quality Act, or under the Water Pollution Control Act, 33
U.S.C., Section 1251, et seq.
(b)  "Solid waste" does not include any of the following wastes unless the
waste causes a public nuisance or public health hazard or is otherwise
determined to be a hazardous waste:
(i)  certain large volume wastes, such as inert construction debris used as
fill material;
(ii)  drilling muds, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the
exploration, development, or production of oil, gas, or geothermal energy;
(iii)  fly ash waste, bottom ash waste, slag waste, and flue gas emission
control waste generated primarily from the combustion of coal or other fossil
fuels;
(iv)  solid wastes from the extraction, beneficiation, and processing of ores
and minerals; or
(v)  cement kiln dust.
(19)  "Storage" means the actual or intended containment of solid or hazardous
waste either on a temporary basis or for a period of years in such a manner as
not to constitute disposal of the waste.
(20)  "Transportation" means the off-site movement of solid or hazardous waste
to any intermediate point or to any point of storage, treatment, or disposal.
(21)  "Treatment" means a method, technique, or process designed to change the
physical, chemical, or biological character or composition of any solid or
hazardous waste so as to neutralize the waste or render the waste
nonhazardous, safer for transport, amenable for recovery, amenable to storage,
or reduced in volume.
(22)  "Underground storage tank" means a tank which is regulated under
Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C., Section
6991, et seq.
