19-6-120.   New hazardous waste operation plans -- Designation of hazardous
waste facilities -- Fees for filing and plan review.
(1)  For purposes of this section, the following items shall be treated as
submission of a new hazardous waste operation plan:
(a)  the submission of a revised hazardous waste operation plan specifying a
different geographic site than a previously submitted plan;
(b)  an application for modification of a commercial hazardous waste
incinerator if the construction or the modification would increase the
commercial hazardous waste incinerator capacity above the capacity specified
in the operation plan as of January 1, 1990, or the capacity specified in the
operation plan application as of January 1, 1990, if no operation plan
approval has been issued as of January 1, 1990; or
(c)  an application for modification of a commercial hazardous waste
treatment, storage, or disposal facility, other than an incinerator, if the
modification would be outside the boundaries of the property owned or
controlled by the applicant, as shown in the application or approved operation
plan as of January 1, 1990, or the initial approved operation plan if initial
approval is subsequent to January 1, 1990.
(2)  Capacity under Subsection (1)(b) shall be calculated based on the
throughput tonnage specified for the trial burn in the operation plan or the
operation plan application if no operation plan approval has been issued as of
January 1, 1990, and on annual operations of 7,000 hours.
(3) (a)  Hazardous waste facilities that are subject to payment of fees under
this section or Section 19-1-201 for plan reviews under Section 19-6-108 shall
be designated by the department as either class I, class II, class III, or
class IV facilities.
(b)  The department shall designate commercial hazardous waste facilities
containing either landfills, surface impoundments, land treatment units,
thermal treatment units, incinerators, or underground injection wells, which
primarily receive wastes generated by off-site sources not owned, controlled,
or operated by the facility owner or operator, as class I facilities.
(4)  The maximum fee for filing and review of each class I facility operation
plan is $200,000, and is due and payable as follows:
(a)  The owner or operator of a class I facility shall, at the time of filing
for plan review, pay to the department the nonrefundable sum of $50,000.
(b)  Upon issuance by the executive secretary of a notice of completeness
under Section 19-6-108, the owner or operator of the facility shall pay to the
department an additional nonrefundable sum of $50,000.
(c)  The department shall bill the owner or operator of the facility for any
additional actual costs of plan review, up to an additional $100,000.
(5) (a)  The department shall designate hazardous waste incinerators that
primarily receive wastes generated by sources owned, controlled, or operated
by the facility owner or operator as class II facilities.
(b)  The maximum fee for filing and review of each class II facility operation
plan is $150,000, and shall be due and payable as follows:
(i)  The owner or operator of a class II facility shall, at the time of filing
for plan review under Section 19-6-108, pay to the department the
nonrefundable sum of $50,000.
(ii)  The department shall bill the owner or operator of the facility for any
additional actual costs of plan review, up to an additional $100,000.
(6) (a)  The department shall designate hazardous waste facilities containing
either landfills, surface impoundments, land treatment units, thermal
treatment units, or underground injection wells, that primarily receive wastes
generated by sources owned, controlled, or operated by the facility owner or
operator, as class III facilities.
(b)  The maximum fee for filing and review of each class III facility
operation plan is $100,000 and is due and payable as follows:
(i)  The owner or operator shall, at the time of filing for plan review, pay
to the department the nonrefundable sum of $1,000.
(ii)  The department shall bill the owner or operator of each class III
facility for actual costs of operation plan review, up to an additional
$99,000.
(7) (a)  All other hazardous waste facilities are designated as class IV
facilities.
(b)  The maximum fee for filing and review of each class IV facility operation
plan is $50,000 and is due and payable as follows:
(i)  The owner or operator shall, at the time of filing for plan review, pay
to the department the nonrefundable sum of $1,000.
(ii)  The department shall bill the owner or operator of each class IV
facility for actual costs of operation plan review, up to an additional
$49,000.
(8) (a)  The maximum fee for filing and review of each major modification plan
and major closure plan for a class I, class II, or class III facility is
$50,000 and is due and payable as follows:
(i)  The owner or operator shall, at the time of filing for that review, pay
to the department the nonrefundable sum of $1,000.
(ii)  The department shall bill the owner or operator of the hazardous waste
facility for actual costs of the review, up to an additional $49,000.
(b)  The maximum fee for filing and review of each minor modification and
minor closure plan for a class I, class II, or class III facility, and of any
modification or closure plan for a class IV facility, is $20,000, and is due
and payable as follows:
(i)  The owner or operator shall, at the time of filing for that review, pay
to the department the nonrefundable sum of $1,000.
(ii)  The department shall bill the owner or operator of the hazardous waste
facility for actual costs of review up to an additional $19,000.
(c)  The owner or operator of a thermal treatment unit shall submit a trial or
test burn schedule 90 days prior to any planned trial or test burn.  At the
time the schedule is submitted, the owner or operator shall pay to the
department the nonrefundable fee of $25,000.  The department shall apply the
fee to the costs of the review and processing of each trial or test burn plan,
trial or test burn, and trial or test burn data report.  The department shall
bill the owner or operator of the facility for any additional actual costs of
review and preparation.
(9) (a)  The owner or operator of a class III facility may obtain a plan
review within the time periods for a class II facility operation plan by
paying, at the time of filing for plan review, the maximum fee for a class II
facility operation plan.
(b)  The owner or operator of a class IV facility may obtain a plan review
within the time periods for a class II facility operation plan by paying, at
the time of filing for plan review, the maximum fee for a class III facility
operation plan.
(c)  An owner or operator of a class I, class II, or class III facility who
submits a major modification plan or a major closure plan may obtain a plan
review within the time periods for a class II facility operation plan by
paying, at the time of filing for plan review, the maximum fee for a class II
facility operation plan.
(d)  An owner or operator of a class I, class II, or class III facility who
submits a minor modification plan or a minor closure plan, and an owner or
operator of a class IV facility who submits a modification plan or a closure
plan, may obtain a plan review within the time periods for a class II facility
operation plan by paying, at the time of filing for plan review, the maximum
fee for a class III facility operation plan.
(10)  All fees received by the department under this section shall be
deposited in the General Fund as dedicated credits for hazardous waste plan
reviews in accordance with Subsection (12) and Section 19-6-108. All funding
of the hazardous waste plan review program is nonlapsing.
(11) (a) (i)  The executive secretary shall establish an accounting procedure
that separately accounts for fees paid by each owner or operator who submits a
hazardous waste operation plan for approval under Section 19-6-108 and pays
fees for hazardous waste plan reviews under this section or Section 19-1-201.
(ii)  The executive secretary shall credit all fees paid by the owner or
operator to that owner or operator.
(iii)  The executive secretary shall account for costs actually incurred in
reviewing each operation plan and may only use the fees of each owner or
operator for review of that owner or operator's plan.
(b)  If the costs actually incurred by the department in reviewing  a
hazardous waste operation plan of any facility are less than the nonrefundable
fee paid by the owner or operator under this section, the department may, upon
approval or disapproval of the plan by the board or upon withdrawal of the
plan by the owner or operator, use any remaining funds that have been credited
to that owner or operator for the purposes of administering provisions of the
hazardous waste programs and activities authorized by this part.
(12) (a)  With regard to any review of a hazardous waste operation plan,
modification plan, or closure plan that is pending on April 25, 1988 the
executive secretary may assess fees for that plan review.
(b)  The total amount of fees paid by an owner or operator of a hazardous
waste facility whose plan review is affected by this subsection may not exceed
the maximum fees allowable under this section for the appropriate class of
facility.
(13) (a)  The department shall maintain accurate records of its actual costs
for each plan review under this section.
(b)  Those records shall be available for public inspection.
