19-6-206.   Exclusive remedy for devaluation of property caused by approved
facility.
(1)  Before construction of a hazardous waste management facility, but in no
case later than nine months after approval of a plan for a hazardous waste
treatment, storage, or disposal facility, any owner or user of property
adversely affected by approval may bring an action in a district court of
competent jurisdiction against the owner of the proposed facility. If the
court determines that the planned construction and operation of the hazardous
waste management facility will result in the devaluation of the plaintiff's
property or will otherwise interfere with the plaintiff's rights in the
property, it shall order the owner to compensate the plaintiff in an amount
equal to the value of the plaintiff's loss.
(2)  The remedy provided in Subsection (1) is the exclusive remedy for owners
or users aggrieved by the proposed construction and operation of a hazardous
waste treatment, disposal, or storage facility, and no court has jurisdiction
to enjoin the construction or operation of any facility located at a site
included in the siting plan adopted by the board.
(3)  Nothing in this part prevents an owner or user of property aggrieved by
the construction and operation of a facility from seeking damages that result
from a subsequent modification of the design or operation of a facility but
damages are limited to the incremental damage that results from the
modification.  Any action for damages from a modification shall be brought
within nine months after the plans for modification of the design or operation
of the facility are approved.
(4)  For the purpose of assessing damages, the value of the rights affected is
fixed at the date the facility plan is approved and the actual value of the
right at that date is the basis for the determination of the amount of damage
suffered, and no improvements to the property subsequent to the date of
approval of the plans shall be included in the assessment of damages.
Similarly, for any subsequent modification of a facility, value is fixed at
the date of approval of the amended facility plan.
(5)  The owner or operator of a proposed facility may, at any time before an
award of damages, abandon the construction or operation of the facility or any
modification and cause the action to be dismissed.  As a condition of
dismissal, however, the owner or operator shall compensate the plaintiff for
any actual damage sustained as a result of construction or operation of the
facility before abandonment together with court costs and a reasonable
attorney's fee.
(6)  Nothing in this part prevents a court from enjoining any activity at a
hazardous waste facility that is outside of, or not in compliance with, the
terms and conditions of an approved hazardous waste operations plan.
