19-6-316.   Liability for costs of remedial investigations -- Liability
agreements.
(1)  The executive director may recover only a proportionate share of costs of
any remedial investigation performed under Sections 19-6-314 and 19-6-315 from
each responsible party, as provided in this section.
(2) (a)  In apportioning responsibility for the remedial investigation, or
liability for the costs of the remedial investigation, in any administrative
proceeding or judicial action, the following standards apply:
(i)  liability shall be apportioned in proportion to each responsible party's
respective contribution to the release;
(ii)  the apportionment of liability shall be based on equitable factors,
including the quantity, mobility, persistence, and toxicity of hazardous
substances contributed by a responsible party, and the comparative behavior of
a responsible party in contributing to the release, relative to other
responsible parties.
(b)  Liability may not be apportioned against a current or previous owner or
operator who acquired or became the operator of the facility before March 18,
1985, who may otherwise be a responsible party but who did not know that any
hazardous material which is the subject of a release was on, in, or at the
facility prior to acquisition or operation of the facility, and the release is
not the result of an act or omission of the current or previous owner or
operator.
(c)  Liability may not be apportioned against a current or previous owner or
operator who acquired or became the operator of the facility on or after March
18, 1985, who may otherwise be a responsible party but who did not know and
had no reason to know, after having taken all appropriate inquiry into the
previous ownership and uses of the facility, consistent with good commercial
or customary practice at the time of the purchase, that any hazardous material
which is the subject of a release was on, in, or at the facility prior to
acquisition or operation of the facility, and the release is not the result of
an act or omission of the current or previous owner or operator.
(d)  A responsible party who is not exempt under Subsection (2)(b) or (c) may
be considered to have contributed to the release and may be liable for a
proportionate share of costs as provided under this section either by
affirmatively causing a release or by failing to take action to prevent or
abate a release which has originated at or from the facility.  A person whose
property is contaminated by migration from an offsite release is not
considered to have contributed to the release unless the person takes actions
which exacerbate the release.
(e)  A responsible party who meets the criteria in Subsection (2)(b) or (c) or
a person who is not considered to have contributed to a release under
Subsection (2)(d) is not considered to have contributed to a release solely by
failing to take abatement or remedial action pursuant to an administrative
order.
(f) (i)  The burden of proving proportionate contribution shall be borne by
each responsible party.
(ii)  If a responsible party does not prove his proportionate contribution,
the court or the executive director shall apportion liability to the party
based solely on available evidence and the standards of Subsection (2)(a).
(iii)  The ability of a responsible party to pay is not a factor in the
apportionment of liability.
(g)  The court may not impose joint and several liability.
(h)  Each responsible party is strictly liable solely for his proportionate
share of investigation costs.
(3)  The failure of the executive director to name all responsible parties is
not a defense to an action under this section.
(4) (a)  Any party who incurs costs under this part in excess of his liability
may seek contribution from any other party who is or may be liable under this
part for the excess costs in district court.
(b)  In resolving claims made under Subsection (4)(a), the court shall
allocate costs using the standards set forth in Subsection (2).
(5) (a)  A party who has resolved his liability in an agreement under Sections
19-6-314 through this section is not liable for claims for contribution
regarding matters addressed in the settlement.
(b) (i)  An agreement does not discharge any of the liability of responsible
parties who are not parties to the agreement, unless the terms of the
agreement provide otherwise.
(ii)  An agreement made under this Subsection (5)(b) reduces the potential
liability of other responsible parties by the amount of the agreement.
(6) (a)  If the executive director obtains less than complete relief from a
party who has resolved his liability in an agreement under Sections 19-6-314
through this section, the executive director may bring an action against any
party who has not resolved his liability in an agreement.
(b)  In apportioning liability, the standards of Subsection (2) apply.
(c)  A party who resolved his liability for some or all of the costs in an
agreement under Sections 19-6-314 through this section may seek contribution
from any person who is not party to an agreement under Sections 19-6-314
through this section.
(7) (a)  An agreement made under Sections 19-6-314 through this section may
provide that the executive director will pay for costs of actions that the
parties have agreed to perform, but which the executive director has agreed to
finance, under the agreement.
(b)  If the executive director makes payments from the fund, he may recover
the amount paid using the authority of Sections 19-6-314 through this section
or any other applicable authority.
