19-6-325.   Voluntary agreements -- Parties -- Funds --  Enforcement.
(1) (a)  Under this part, and subject to Subsection (b), the executive
director may enter into a voluntary agreement with a responsible party
providing for the responsible party to conduct an investigation or a cleanup
action on sites that contain hazardous materials.
(b)  The executive director and a responsible party may not enter into a
voluntary agreement under this part unless all known potentially responsible
parties:
(i)  have been notified by either the executive director or the responsible
party of the proposed agreement; and
(ii)  have been given an opportunity to comment on the proposed agreement
prior to the parties' entering into the agreement.
(2) (a)  The executive director may receive funds from any responsible party
that signs a voluntary agreement allowing the executive director to:
(i)  review any proposals outlining how the investigation or cleanup action is
to be performed; and
(ii)  oversee the investigation or cleanup action.
(b)  Funds received by the executive director under this section shall be
deposited in the fund and used by the executive director as provided in the
voluntary agreement.
(3)  If a responsible party fails to perform as required under a voluntary
agreement entered into under this part, the executive director may take action
and seek penalties to enforce the agreement as provided in the agreement.
(4)  The executive director may not use the provisions of Section 19-6-310,
19-6-316, or 19-6-318 to recover costs received or expended pursuant to a
voluntary agreement from any person not a party to that agreement.
(5) (a)  Any party who incurs costs under a voluntary agreement in excess of
his liability may seek contribution from any other party who is or may be
liable under this part for the excess costs in district court.
(b)  In resolving claims made under Subsection (5)(a), the court shall
allocate costs using the standards in Subsection 19-6-310 (2).
(6)  This section takes precedence over conflicting provisions in this chapter
regarding agreements with responsible parties to conduct an investigation or
cleanup action.
