19-6-420.   Releases -- Abatement actions -- Corrective actions.

(1)  If the executive secretary determines that a release from a petroleum storage tank has occurred, he shall:

(a)  identify and name as many of the responsible parties as reasonably possible; and

(b)  determine which responsible parties, if any, are covered by the fund regarding the release in question.

(2)  Regardless of whether the tank generating the release is covered by the fund, the executive secretary may:

(a)  order the owner or operator to take abatement, investigative, or corrective action, including the submission of a corrective action plan; and

(b)  if the owner or operator fails to take any of the abatement, investigative, or corrective action ordered by the executive secretary, the executive secretary may take any one or more of the following actions:

(i)  subject to the conditions in this part, use money from the fund, if the tank involved is covered by the fund, state cleanup appropriation, or the Petroleum Storage Tank Cleanup Fund created under Section 19-6-405.7 to perform investigative, abatement, or corrective action;

(ii)  commence an enforcement proceeding;

(iii)  enter into agreements or issue orders as allowed by Section 19-6-424.5; or

(iv)  recover costs from responsible parties equal to their proportionate share of liability as determined by Section 19-6-424.5.

(3) (a)  Subject to the limitations established in Section 19-6-419, the executive secretary shall provide money from the fund for abatement action for a release generated by a tank covered by the fund if:

(i)  the owner or operator takes the abatement action ordered by the executive secretary; and

(ii)  the executive secretary approves the abatement action.

(b)  If a release presents the possibility of imminent and substantial danger to the public health or the environment, the owner or operator may take immediate abatement action and petition the executive secretary for reimbursement from the fund for the costs of the abatement action.  If the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the executive secretary that the abatement action was reasonable and timely in light of circumstances, the executive secretary shall reimburse the petitioner for costs associated with immediate abatement action, subject to the limitations established in Section 19-6-419.

(c)  The owner or operator shall notify the executive secretary within 24 hours of the abatement action taken.

(4) (a)  If the executive secretary determines corrective action is necessary, the executive secretary shall order the owner or operator to submit a corrective action plan to address the release.

(b)  If the owner or operator submits a corrective action plan, the executive secretary shall review the corrective action plan and approve or disapprove the plan.

(c)  In reviewing the corrective action plan, the executive secretary shall consider the following:

(i)  the threat to public health;

(ii)  the threat to the environment; and

(iii)  the cost-effectiveness of alternative corrective actions.

(5)  If the executive secretary approves the corrective action plan or develops his own corrective action plan, he shall:

(a)  approve the estimated cost of implementing the corrective action plan;

(b)  order the owner or operator to implement the corrective action plan;

(c) (i)  if the release is covered by the fund, determine the amount of fund money to be allocated to an owner or operator to implement a corrective action plan; and

(ii)  subject to the limitations established in Section 19-6-419, provide money from the fund to the owner or operator to implement the corrective action plan.

(6) (a)  The executive secretary may not distribute any money from the fund for corrective action until the owner or operator obtains the executive secretary's approval of the corrective action plan.

(b)  An owner or operator who begins corrective action without first obtaining approval from the executive secretary and who is covered by the fund may be reimbursed for the costs of the corrective action, subject to the limitations established in Section 19-6-419, if:

(i)  the owner or operator submits the corrective action plan to the executive secretary within seven days after beginning corrective action; and

(ii)  the executive secretary approves the corrective action plan.

(7)  If the executive secretary disapproves the plan, he shall solicit a new corrective action plan from the owner or operator.

(8)  If the executive secretary disapproves the second corrective action plan, or if the owner or operator fails to submit a second plan within a reasonable time, the executive secretary may:

(a)  develop his own corrective action plan; and

(b)  act as authorized under Subsections (2) and (5).

(9) (a)  When notified that the corrective action plan has been implemented, the executive secretary shall inspect the location of the release to determine whether or not the corrective action has been properly performed and completed.

(b)  If the executive secretary determines the corrective action has not been properly performed or completed, he may issue an order requiring the owner or operator to complete the corrective action within the time specified in the order.

