19-6-502.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Governing body" means the governing board, commission, or council of a public entity.

(2)  "Jurisdiction" means the area within the incorporated limits of:

(a)  a municipality;

(b)  a special service district;

(c)  a municipal-type service district;

(d)  a service area; or

(e)  the territorial area of a county not lying within a municipality.

(3)  "Long-term agreement" means an agreement or contract having a term of more than five years but less than 50 years.

(4)  "Municipal residential waste" means solid waste that is:

(a)  discarded or rejected at a residence within the public entity's jurisdiction; and

(b)  collected at or near the residence by:

(i)  a public entity; or

(ii)  a person with whom the public entity has as an agreement to provide solid waste management.

(5)  "Public entity" means:

(a)  a county;

(b)  a municipality;

(c)  a special service district under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act;

(d)  a service area under Title 17B, Chapter 2a, Part 9, Service Area Act; or

(e)  a municipal-type service district created under Title 17, Chapter 34, Municipal-Type Services to Unincorporated Areas.

(6)  "Requirement" means an ordinance, policy, rule, mandate, or other directive that imposes a legal duty on a person.

(7)  "Residence" means an improvement to real property used or occupied as a primary or secondary detached single-family dwelling.

(8)  "Resource recovery" means the separation, extraction, recycling, or recovery of usable material, energy, fuel, or heat from solid waste and the disposition of it.

(9)  "Short-term agreement" means a contract or agreement having a term of five years or less.

(10) (a)  "Solid waste" means a putrescible or nonputrescible material or substance discarded or rejected as being spent, useless, worthless, or in excess of the owner's needs at the time of discard or rejection, including:

(i)  garbage;

(ii)  refuse;

(iii)  industrial and commercial waste;

(iv)  sludge from an air or water control facility;

(v)  rubbish;

(vi)  ash;

(vii)  contained gaseous material;

(viii)  incinerator residue;

(ix)  demolition and construction debris;

(x)  a discarded automobile; and

(xi)  offal.

(b)  "Solid waste" does not include sewage or another highly diluted water carried material or substance and those in gaseous form.

(11)  "Solid waste management" means the purposeful and systematic collection, transportation, storage, processing, recovery, or disposal of solid waste.

(12)  "Solid waste management facility" means a facility employed for solid waste management, including:

(a)  a transfer station;

(b)  a transport system;

(c)  a baling facility;

(d)  a landfill; and

(e)  a processing system, including:

(i)  a resource recovery facility;

(ii)  a facility for reducing solid waste volume;

(iii)  a plant or facility for compacting, composting, or pyrolization of solid waste;

(iv)  an incinerator;

(v)  a solid waste disposal, reduction, or conversion facility; and

(vi)  a facility for resource recovery of energy consisting of:

(A) a facility for the production, transmission, distribution, and sale of heat and steam; 

(B)  a facility for the generation and sale of electric energy to a public utility, municipality, or other public entity that owns and operates an electric power system on March 15, 1982; and

(C)  a facility for the generation, sale, and transmission of electric energy on an emergency basis only to a military installation of the United States.

