19-6-806.   Registration of waste tire transporters and recyclers.

(1) (a)  The executive secretary shall register each applicant for registration to act as a waste tire transporter if the applicant meets the requirements of this section.

(b)  An applicant for registration as a waste tire transporter shall:

(i)  submit an application in a form prescribed by the executive secretary;

(ii)  pay a fee as determined by the board under Section 63J-1-504;

(iii)  provide the name and business address of the operator;

(iv)  provide proof of liability insurance or other form of financial responsibility in an amount determined by board rule, but not more than $300,000, for any liability the waste tire transporter may incur in transporting waste tires; and

(v)  meet requirements established by board rule.

(c)  The holder of a registration under this section shall advise the executive secretary in writing of any changes in application information provided to the executive secretary within 20 days of the change.

(d)  If the executive secretary has reason to believe a waste tire transporter has disposed of tires other than as allowed under this part, the executive secretary shall conduct an investigation and, after complying with the procedural requirements of Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, may revoke the registration.

(2) (a)  The executive secretary shall register each applicant for registration to act as a waste tire recycler if the applicant meets the requirements of this section.

(b)  An applicant for registration as a waste tire recycler shall:

(i)  submit an application in a form prescribed by the executive secretary;

(ii)  pay a fee as determined by the board under Section 63J-1-504;

(iii)  provide the name and business address of the operator of the recycling business;

(iv)  provide proof of liability insurance or other form of financial responsibility in an amount determined by board rule, but not more than $300,000, for any liability the waste tire recycler may incur in storing and recycling waste tires;

(v)  engage in activities as described under the definition of recycler in Section 19-6-803; and

(vi)  meet requirements established by board rule.

(c)  The holder of a registration under this section shall advise the executive secretary in writing of any changes in application information provided to the executive secretary within 20 days of the change.

(d)  If the executive secretary has reason to believe a waste tire recycler has falsified any information provided in an application for partial reimbursement under this section, the executive secretary shall, after complying with the procedural requirements of Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, revoke the registration.

(3)  The board shall establish a uniform fee for registration which shall be imposed by any unit of local government or local health department that requires a registration fee as part of the registration of waste tire transporters or waste tire recyclers.

