19-6-902.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Board" means the Solid and Hazardous Waste Control Board, as defined in Section 19-1-106, within the Department of Environmental Quality.

(2)  "Certified decontamination specialist" means an individual who has met the standards for certification as a decontamination specialist and has been certified by the board under Subsection 19-6-906(2).

(3)  "Contaminated" or "contamination" means:

(a)  polluted by hazardous materials that cause property to be unfit for human habitation or use due to immediate or long-term health hazards; or

(b)  that a property is polluted by hazardous materials as a result of the use, production, or presence of methamphetamine in excess of decontamination standards adopted by the Department of Health under Section 26-51-201.

(4)  "Contamination list" means a list maintained by the local health department of properties:

(a)  reported to the local health department under Section 19-6-903; and

(b)  determined by the local health department to be contaminated.

(5) (a)  "Decontaminated" means property that at one time was contaminated, but the contaminants have been removed.

(b)  "Decontaminated" for a property that was contaminated by the use, production, or presence of methamphetamine means that the property satisfies decontamination standards adopted by the Department of Health under Section 26-51-201.

(6)  "Hazardous materials":

(a)  has the same meaning as "hazardous or dangerous material" as defined in Section 58-37d-3; and

(b)  includes any illegally manufactured controlled substances.

(7)  "Health department" means a local health department under Title 26A, Local Health Authorities.

(8)  "Owner of record":

(a)  means the owner of real property as shown on the records of the county recorder in the county where the property is located; and

(b)  may include an individual, financial institution, company, corporation, or other entity.

(9)  "Property":

(a)  means any real property, site, structure, part of a structure, or the grounds surrounding a structure; and

(b)  includes single-family residences, outbuildings, garages, units of multiplexes, condominiums, apartment buildings, warehouses, hotels, motels, boats, motor vehicles, trailers, manufactured housing, shops, or booths.

(10)  "Reported property" means property that is the subject of a law enforcement report under Section 19-6-903.



Amended by Chapter 278, 2013 General Session

