19-6-903.   Law enforcement reporting and records -- Removal from list.
(1) (a)  When any state or local law enforcement agency in the course of its
official duties observes any paraphernalia of a clandestine drug laboratory
operation, including chemicals or equipment used in the manufacture of
unlawful drugs, the agency shall report the location where the items were
observed to the local health department.
(b) (i)  The law enforcement officer shall make the report under Subsection
(1)(a) at the location where the observation occurred, if making the report at
that time will not compromise an ongoing investigation.
(ii)  If the report cannot be made at the location, the report shall be made
as soon afterward as is practical.
(c)  The report under Subsection (1)(a) shall include:
(i)  the date of the observation;
(ii)  the name of the reporting agency and the case number of the case that
involves the location of the observation;
(iii)  the contact information of the officer involved, including name and
telephone number;
(iv)  the address of the location and descriptions of the property that may be
contaminated; and
(v)  a brief description of the evidence at the location that led to the
belief the property at the location may be contaminated.
(2)  The law enforcement agency shall forward to the local health department
copies of the reports made under Subsection (1).
(3) (a)  Upon receipt of a complaint or a report from law enforcement
regarding possibly contaminated property, the local health officer or his
designee shall determine if reasonable evidence exists that the property is
contaminated.
(b)  The local health department shall place property considered to be
contaminated on a contamination list.
(4)  The local health departments shall maintain searchable records of the
properties on their contamination lists and shall:
(a)  make the records reasonably available to the public;
(b)  provide written notification to persons requesting access to the records
that the records are only advisory in determining if specific property has
been contaminated by clandestine drug lab activity; and
(c)  remove the contaminated property from the list when the following
conditions have been met:
(i)  the local health department has monitored the decontamination process
and, after documenting that the test results meet decontamination standards,
has authorized the removal of or purging of the contamination information from
the department's records; or
(ii)  a certified decontamination specialist submits a report to the local
health department stating that the property is decontaminated.
