75-3-703.   General duties -- Relation and liability to persons interested
in estate -- Standing to sue.
(1)  A personal representative is a fiduciary who shall observe the standard
of care applicable to trustees as described by Section 75-7-902.  A personal
representative is under a duty to settle and distribute the estate of the
decedent in accordance with the terms of any probated and effective will and
this code and as expeditiously and efficiently as is consistent with the best
interests of the estate.  He shall use the authority conferred upon him by
this code, the terms of the will, if any, and any order in proceedings to
which he is party for the best interests of successors to the estate.
(2)  A personal representative shall not be surcharged for acts of
administration or distribution if the conduct in question was authorized at
the time.  Subject to other obligations of administration, an informally
probated will is authority to administer and distribute the estate according
to its terms.  An order of appointment of a personal representative, whether
issued in informal or formal proceedings, is authority to distribute
apparently intestate assets to the heirs of the decedent if, at the time of
distribution, the personal representative is not aware of a pending testacy
proceeding, a proceeding to vacate an order entered in an earlier testacy
proceeding, a formal proceeding questioning his appointment or fitness to
continue, or a supervised administration proceeding.  Nothing in this section
affects the duty of the personal representative to administer and distribute
the estate in accordance with the rights of claimants, the surviving spouse,
any minor and dependent children, and any pretermitted child of the decedent
as described elsewhere in this code.
(3)  Except as to proceedings which do not survive the death of the decedent,
a personal representative of a decedent domiciled in this state at his death
has the same standing to sue and be sued in the courts of this state and
courts of any other jurisdiction as his decedent had immediately prior to
death.
