75-3-804.   Manner of presentation of claims.

(1)  Claims against a decedent's estate may be presented as follows:

(a)  The claimant may deliver or mail to the personal representative, or the personal representative's attorney of record, a written statement of the claim indicating its basis, the name and address of the claimant, and the amount claimed, or may file a written statement of the claim, in the form prescribed by rule, with the clerk of the court.  The claim is deemed presented on either the receipt of the written statement of claim by the personal representative or the personal representative's attorney of record, or the filing of the claim with the court, whichever occurs first.  If a claim is not yet due, the date when it will become due shall be stated.  If the claim is contingent or unliquidated, the nature of the uncertainty shall be stated.  If the claim is secured, the security shall be described.  Failure to describe correctly the security, the nature of any uncertainty, and the due date of a claim not yet due does not invalidate the presentation made.

(b)  The claimant may commence a proceeding against the personal representative in any court where the personal representative may be subjected to jurisdiction to obtain payment of the claim against the estate, but the commencement of the proceeding must occur within the time limited for presenting the claim.  No presentation of claim is required in regard to matters claimed in proceedings against the decedent which were pending at the time of the decedent's death.

(2)  If a claim is presented under Subsection (1)(a), no proceeding thereon may be commenced more than 60 days after the personal representative has mailed a notice of disallowance; but, in the case of a claim which is not presently due or which is contingent or unliquidated, the personal representative may consent to an extension of the 60-day period, or to avoid injustice the court, on petition, may order an extension of the 60-day period, but in no event may the extension run beyond the applicable statute of limitations.

