58-28-102.   Definitions.
In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:
(1)  "Abandonment" means to forsake entirely or to refuse to provide care and
support for an animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian.
(2)  "Administer" means:
(a)  the direct application by a person of a prescription drug or device by
injection, inhalation, ingestion, or by any other means, to the body of an
animal that is a patient or is a research subject; or
(b)  a veterinarian providing to the owner or caretaker of an animal a
prescription drug for application by injection, inhalation, ingestion, or any
other means to the body of the animal by the owner or caretaker in accordance
with the veterinarian's written directions.
(3)  "Animal" means any animal other than a human.
(4)  "AVMA" means American Veterinary Medical Association.
(5)  "Board" means the Veterinary Board established in Section 58-28-201.
(6)  "Client" means the patient's owner, the owner's agent, or other person
responsible for the patient.
(7)  "Direct supervision" means a veterinarian licensed under this chapter is
present and available for face-to-face contact with the patient and person
being supervised, at the time the patient is receiving veterinary care.
(8)  "Extra-label use" means actual use or intended use of a drug in an animal
in a manner that is not in accordance with approved labeling.
(9)  "Immediate supervision" means the veterinarian licensed under this
chapter is present with the individual being supervised, while the individual
is performing the delegated tasks.
(10)  "Indirect supervision" means a veterinarian licensed under this chapter:
(a)  has given either written or verbal instructions for veterinary care of a
patient to the person being supervised; and
(b)  is available to the person being supervised by telephone or other
electronic means of communication during the period of time in which the
veterinary care is given to the patient.
(11)  "Practice of veterinary medicine, surgery, and dentistry" means to:
(a)  diagnose, prognose, or treat any disease, defect, deformity, wound,
injury, or physical condition of any animal;
(b)  administer, prescribe or dispense any drug, medicine, treatment, method,
or practice, perform any operation or manipulation, apply any apparatus or
appliance for the cure, relief, or correction of any animal disease,
deformity, defect, wound, or injury, or otherwise practice any veterinary
medicine, dentistry, or surgery on any animal;
(c)  represent by verbal or written claim, sign, word, title, letterhead,
card, or any other manner that one is a licensed veterinarian or qualified to
practice veterinary medicine, surgery, or dentistry;
(d)  hold oneself out as able to practice veterinary medicine, surgery, or
dentistry;
(e)  solicit, sell, or furnish any parenterally administered animal disease
cures, preventions, or treatments, with or without the necessary instruments
for the  administration of them, or any and all worm and other internal
parasitic remedies, upon any agreement, express or implied, to administer
these cures, preventions, treatments, or remedies; or
(f)  assume or use the title or designation, "veterinary," "veterinarian,"
"animal doctor," "animal surgeon," or any other title, designation, words,
letters, abbreviations, sign, card, or device tending to indicate that such
person is qualified to practice veterinary medicine, surgery, or dentistry.
(12)  "Unlawful conduct" is defined in Sections 58-1-501 and 58-28-501.
(13)  "Unlicensed assistive personnel":
(a)  means any unlicensed person, regardless of title, to whom tasks are
delegated by a veterinarian licensed under this chapter as permitted by
administrative rule and in accordance with the standards of the profession;
and
(b)  includes:
(i)  a veterinary assistant, if working under immediate supervision;
(ii)  a veterinary technician who:
(A)  has graduated from a program of veterinary technology accredited by the
AVMA that is at least a two-year program; and
(B)  who is working under direct supervision; and
(iii)  a veterinary technologist who:
(A)  has graduated from a four-year program of veterinary technology
accredited by the AVMA; and
(B)  is working under indirect supervision.
(14)  "Unprofessional conduct" is as defined in Sections 58-1-501 and
58-28-502 and may be further defined by rule.
(15)  "Veterinarian-client-patient relationship" means:
(a)  a veterinarian licensed under this chapter has assumed responsibility for
making clinical judgements regarding the health of an animal and the need for
medical treatment of an animal, and the client has agreed to follow the
veterinarian's instructions;
(b)  the veterinarian has sufficient knowledge of the animal to initiate at
least a general or preliminary diagnosis of the medical condition of the
animal, including knowledge of the keeping and care of the animal as a result
of recent personal examination of the animal or by medically appropriate
visits to the premises where the animal is housed; and
(c)  the veterinarian has arranged for emergency coverage for follow-up
evaluation in the event of adverse reaction or the failure of the treatment
regimen.
