17-16-11.   Fidelity bonds and theft or crime insurance.
(1)  As used in this section, "county officials" means:
(a)  the members of the county legislative body;
(b)  the county executive;
(c)  the county clerk;
(d)  the county auditor;
(e)  the county sheriff;
(f)  the county attorney;
(g)  in a county that is within a prosecution district, the district attorney;
(h)  the county recorder;
(i)  the county assessor;
(j)  the county surveyor;
(k)  each justice court judge and constable within the county;
(l)  the county treasurer; and
(m)  each deputy or assistant of those listed in Subsections (1)(a) through
(l) for whom the county legislative body determines a general fidelity bond or
theft or crime insurance should be acquired.
(2) (a)  The legislative body of each county shall prescribe the amount of
each general fidelity bond or of theft or crime insurance to be acquired for
county officials, except the county treasurer, before the county officials,
except the county treasurer, may discharge the duties of their respective
offices.
(b)  The State Money Management Council created in Section 51-7-16 shall
prescribe the amount of a general fidelity bond or theft or crime insurance to
be acquired for the county treasurer before the county treasurer may discharge
the duties of that office.
(c)  A county legislative body may acquire a fidelity bond or theft or crime
insurance on all county officials as a group rather than individually.
(3) (a)  The county legislative body shall approve the premium for each
fidelity bond before the bond may be filed.
(b)  The cost of each fidelity bond and theft or crime insurance policy shall
be paid from county funds.
(4)  Each fidelity bond shall be filed and maintained in the office of the
county clerk.
(5) (a)  The district attorney of each multicounty prosecution district shall:
(i)  execute a fidelity bond or acquire theft or crime insurance in the amount
specified in the interlocal agreement that created the prosecution district;
and
(ii) file each fidelity bond with the county clerk as specified in the
interlocal agreement.
(b)  The cost of each fidelity bond or theft or crime insurance policy under
Subsection (5)(a) shall be paid as specified in the interlocal agreement that
created the prosecution district.
