26-1-4.   Department of Health created -- Policymaking responsibilities --
Consultation with local health departments -- Committee to evaluate health
policies and to review federal grants -- Committee responsibilities.
(1)  There is created the Department of Health, which has all of the
policymaking functions, regulatory and enforcement powers, rights, duties, and
responsibilities of the Division of Health, the Board of Health, the State
Health Planning Development Agency, and the Office of Health Care Financing.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, when reference is made in any statute
of this state to the Board of Health, the Division of Health, the State Health
Planning Development Agency, or the Office of Health Care Financing, it refers
to the department.  The department shall assume all of the policymaking
functions, powers, rights, duties, and responsibilities over the division,
agency, and office previously vested in the Department of Human Services and
its executive director.
(2)  In establishing public health policy, the department shall consult with
the local health departments established under Title 26A, Chapter 1, Local
Health Departments.
(3) (a)  As used in this Subsection (3):
(i)  "Committee" means the committee established under Subsection (3)(b).
(ii)  "Exempt application" means an application for a federal grant that meets
the criteria established under Subsection (3)(c)(iii).
(iii)  "Expedited application" means an application for a federal grant that
meets the criteria established under Subsection (3)(c)(iv).
(iv)  "Federal grant" means a grant from the federal government that could
provide funds for local health departments to help them fulfill their duties
and responsibilities.
(v)  "Reviewable application" means an application for a federal grant that is
not an exempt application.
(b)  The department shall establish a committee consisting of:
(i)  the executive director, or the executive director's designee;
(ii)  two representatives of the department, appointed by the executive
director; and
(iii)  three representatives of local health departments, appointed by all
local health departments.
(c)  The committee shall:
(i)  evaluate:
(A)  the allocation of public health resources between the department and
local health departments; and
(B)  policies that affect local health departments;
(ii)  consider policy changes proposed by the department or local health
departments;
(iii)  establish criteria by which an application for a federal grant may be
judged to determine whether it should be exempt from the requirements under
Subsection (3)(d); and
(iv)  establish criteria by which an application for a federal grant may be
judged to determine whether committee review under Subsection (3)(d)(i) should
be delayed until after the application is submitted because the application is
required to be submitted under a timetable that makes committee review before
it is submitted impracticable if the submission deadline is to be met.
(d) (i)  The committee shall review the goals and budget for each reviewable
application:
(A)  before the application is submitted, except for an expedited application;
and
(B)  for an expedited application, after the application is submitted but
before funds from the federal grant for which the application was submitted
are disbursed or encumbered.
(ii)  Funds from a federal grant pursuant to a reviewable application may not
be disbursed or encumbered before the goals and budget for the federal grant
are established by:
(A)  a two-thirds vote of the committee, following the committee review under
Subsection (3)(d)(i); or
(B)  if two-thirds of the committee cannot agree on the goals and budget, the
chair of the health advisory council, after consultation with the committee in
a manner that the committee determines.
(e)  An exempt application is exempt from the requirements of Subsection
(3)(d).
(f)  The committee shall report to the Legislature's Health and Human Services
Appropriations Subcommittee and Political Subdivisions Interim Committee by
November 30 of each year regarding implementation of this Subsection (3).
(g)  The department may use money from a federal grant to pay administrative
costs incurred in implementing this Subsection (3).
