26-1-7.5.   Health advisory council.

(1) (a)  There is created the Utah Health Advisory Council, comprised of nine persons appointed by the governor.

(b)  The governor shall ensure that:

(i)  members of the council:

(A)  broadly represent the public interest;

(B)  have an interest in or knowledge of public health, environmental health, health planning, health care financing, or health care delivery systems; and

(C)  include health professionals;

(ii)  the majority of the membership are nonhealth professionals;

(iii)  no more than five persons are from the same political party; and

(iv)  geography, sex, and ethnicity balance are considered when selecting the members.

(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), members of the council shall be appointed to four-year terms.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that approximately half of the council is appointed every two years.

(c)  Terms of office for subsequent appointments shall commence on July 1 of the year in which the appointment occurs.

(3) (a)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(b)  No person shall be appointed to the council for more than two consecutive terms.

(c)  The chair of the council shall be appointed by the governor from the membership of the council.

(4)  The council shall meet at least quarterly or more frequently as determined necessary by the chair.  A quorum for conducting business shall consist of four members of the council.

(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but, at the executive director's discretion, may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(6)  The council shall be empowered to advise the department on any subject deemed to be appropriate by the council except that the council may not become involved in administrative matters.  The council shall also advise the department as requested by the executive director.

(7)  The executive director shall ensure that the council has adequate staff support and shall provide any available information requested by the council necessary for their deliberations.  The council shall observe confidential requirements placed on the department in the use of such information.



Amended by Chapter 297, 2011 General Session

