26-1-38.   Local health emergency assistance program.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Local health department" has the same meaning as defined in Section 26A-1-102.

(b)  "Local health emergency" means an unusual event or series of events causing or resulting in a substantial risk or substantial potential risk to the health of a significant portion of the population within the boundary of a local health department.

(c)  "Program" means the local health emergency assistance program that the department is required to establish under this section.

(d)  "Program fund" means money that the Legislature appropriates to the department for use in the program and other money otherwise made available for use in the program.

(2)  The department shall establish, to the extent of funds appropriated by the Legislature or otherwise made available to the program fund, a local health emergency assistance program.

(3)  Under the program, the department shall:

(a)  provide a method for a local health department to seek reimbursement from the program fund for local health department expenses incurred in responding to a local health emergency;

(b)  require matching funds from any local health department seeking reimbursement from the program fund;

(c)  establish a method for apportioning money in the program fund to multiple local health departments when the total amount of concurrent requests for reimbursement by multiple local health departments exceeds the balance in the program fund; and

(d)  establish by rule other provisions that the department considers necessary or advisable to implement the program.

(4)  Each September the department shall:

(a)  submit to the Health and Human Services Interim Committee of the Legislature a written report summarizing program activity, including:

(i)  a description of the requests for reimbursement from local health departments during the preceding 12 months;

(ii)  the amount of each reimbursement made from the program fund to local health departments; and

(iii)  the current balance of the program fund; and

(b)  submit a copy of the report required under Subsection (4)(a) to the Social Services Appropriations Subcommittee.

(5) (a) (i)  Subject to Subsection (5)(a)(ii), the department shall use money in the program fund exclusively for purposes of the program.

(ii)  The department may use money in the program fund to cover its costs of administering the program.

(b)  Money that the Legislature appropriates to the program fund is nonlapsing.

(c)  Any interest earned on money in the program fund shall be deposited to the General Fund.



Amended by Chapter 242, 2012 General Session

