7-5-7.   Management and investment of trust funds.

(1)  Funds received or held by any trust company as agent or fiduciary, whether for investment or distribution, shall be invested or distributed as soon as practicable as authorized under the instrument creating the account and may not be held uninvested any longer than is reasonably necessary.

(2)  If the instrument creating an agency or fiduciary account contains provisions authorizing the trust company, its officers, or its directors to exercise their discretion in the matter of investments, funds held in the trust account under that instrument may be invested only in those classes of securities which are approved by the directors of the trust company or a committee of directors appointed for that purpose.  If a trust company acts in any agency or fiduciary capacity under appointment by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall make and account for all investments according to the provisions of Title 75, Utah Uniform Probate Code, unless the underlying instrument provides otherwise.

(3) (a)  Funds received or held as agent or fiduciary by any trust company which is also a depository institution, whether for investment or distribution, may be deposited in the commercial department or savings department of that trust company to the credit of its trust department.  Whenever the funds so deposited in a fiduciary or managing agency account exceed the amount of federal deposit insurance applicable to that account, the trust company shall deliver to the trust department or put under its control collateral security as outlined in Regulation 9.10 of the Comptroller of the Currency or in Regulation 550.8 of the Office of Thrift Supervision, as amended.  However, if the instrument creating such a fiduciary or managing agency account expressly provides that funds may be deposited to the commercial or savings department of the trust company, then the funds may be so deposited without setting aside collateral securities as required under this section and the deposits in the event of insolvency of any such trust company shall be treated as other general deposits are treated.  A trust company which deposits trust funds in its commercial or savings department shall be liable for interest on the deposits only at the rates, if any, paid by the trust company on deposits of like kind not made to the credit of its trust department.

(b)  Funds received or held as agent or fiduciary by a trust company, whether for investment or distribution, may be deposited in an affiliated depository institution.  Whenever the funds so deposited in a fiduciary or managing agency account exceed the amount of federal deposit insurance applicable to that account, the depository institution shall deliver to the trust company or put under its control collateral security as outlined in Regulation 9.10 of the Comptroller of the Currency or in Regulation 550.8 of the Office of Thrift Supervision as amended.  However, if the instrument creating the fiduciary or managing agency account expressly permits funds to be deposited in the affiliated depository institution, the funds may be so deposited without setting aside collateral securities as required under this section and deposits in the event of insolvency of the depository institution shall be treated as other general deposits are treated.  A trust company which deposits trust funds in an affiliated depository institution is liable for interest on the deposits only at the rates, if any, paid by the depository institution on deposits of like kind.

(4)  In carrying out all aspects of its trust business, a trust company shall have all the powers, privileges, and duties as set forth in Sections 75-7-813 and 75-7-814 with respect to trustees, whether or not the trust company is acting as a trustee as defined in Title 75.

(5)  Nothing in this section may alter, amend, or limit the powers of a trust company acting in a fiduciary capacity as specified in the particular instrument or order creating the fiduciary relationship.



Amended by Chapter 378, 2010 General Session

