26-49-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Department of Health" shall have the meaning provided for in Section
26-1-4.
(2)  "Disaster relief organization" means an entity that:
(a)  provides emergency or disaster relief services that include health or
veterinary services provided by volunteer health practitioners;
(b)  is designated or recognized as a provider of the services described in
Subsection (2)(a) under a disaster response and recovery plan adopted by:
(i)  an agency of the federal government;
(ii)  the state Department of Health; or
(iii)  a local health department; and
(c)  regularly plans and conducts its activities in coordination with:
(i)  an agency of the federal government;
(ii)  the Department of Health; or
(iii)  a local health department.
(3)  "Emergency" means a "state of emergency" as defined in Section 63K-4-103.
(4)  "Emergency declaration" shall have the meaning provided for in Sections
63K-4-203 and 63K-4-301.
(5)  "Emergency Management Assistance Compact" means the interstate compact
approved by Congress by Public Law No. 104-321, 110 Stat. 3877 and adopted by
Utah in Title 53, Chapter 2, Part 2, Emergency Management Assistance Compact.
(6)  "Entity" means a person other than an individual.
(7)  "Health facility" means an entity licensed under the laws of this or
another state to provide health or veterinary services.
(8)  "Health practitioner" means an individual licensed under Utah law or
another state to provide health or veterinary services.
(9)  "Health services" means the provision of treatment, care, advice,
guidance, other services, or supplies related to the health or death of
individuals or human populations, to the extent necessary to respond to an
emergency, including:
(a)  the following, concerning the physical or mental condition or functional
status of an individual or affecting the structure or function of the body:
(i)  preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic, rehabilitative, maintenance, or
palliative care; or
(ii)  counseling, assessment, procedures, or other services;
(b)  selling or dispensing a drug, a device, equipment, or another item to an
individual in accordance with a prescription; and
(c)  funeral, cremation, cemetery, or other mortuary services.
(10)  "Host entity":
(a)  means an entity operating in Utah that:
(i)  uses volunteer health practitioners to respond to an emergency; and
(ii)  is responsible during an emergency, for actually delivering health
services to individuals or human populations, or veterinary services to
animals or animal populations; and
(b)  may include disaster relief organizations, hospitals, clinics, emergency
shelters, health care provider offices, or any other place where volunteer
health practitioners may provide health or veterinary services.
(11) (a)  "License" means authorization by a state to engage in health or
veterinary services that are unlawful without authorization.
(b)  "License" includes authorization under this title to an individual to
provide health or veterinary services based upon a national or state
certification issued by a public or private entity.
(12)  "Local health department" shall have the meaning provided for in
Subsection 26A-1-102(5).
(13)  "Person" means an individual, corporation, business trust, trust,
partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture, public
corporation, government or governmental subdivision, agency, or
instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity.
(14)  "Scope of practice" means the extent of the authorization to provide
health or veterinary services granted to a health practitioner by a license
issued to the practitioner in the state in which the principal part of the
practitioner's services are rendered, including any conditions imposed by the
licensing authority.
(15)  "State" means:
(a)  a state of the United States;
(b)  the District of Columbia;
(c)  Puerto Rico;
(d)  the United States Virgin Islands; or
(e)  any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States.
(16)  "Veterinary services" shall have the meaning provided for in Subsection
58-28-102(11).
(17) (a)  "Volunteer health practitioner" means a health practitioner who
provides health or veterinary services, whether or not the practitioner
receives compensation for those services.
(b)  "Volunteer health practitioner" does not include a practitioner who
receives compensation under a preexisting employment relationship with a host
entity or affiliate that requires the practitioner to provide health services
in Utah, unless the practitioner is:
(i)  not a Utah resident; and
(ii)  employed by a disaster relief organization providing services in Utah
while an emergency declaration is in effect.
