26-49-202.   Volunteer health practitioner registration systems.
(1)  To qualify as a volunteer health practitioner registration system, the
registration system must:
(a)  accept applications for the registration of volunteer health
practitioners before or during an emergency;
(b)  include information about the licensure and good standing of health
practitioners that is accessible by authorized persons;
(c)  be capable of confirming the accuracy of information concerning whether a
health practitioner is licensed and in good standing before health services or
veterinary services are provided under this chapter; and
(d)  meet one of the following conditions:
(i)  be an emergency system for advance registration of volunteer health
practitioners established by a state and funded through the United States
Department of Health and Human Services under Section 319I of the Public
Health Services Act, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 247d-7b, as amended;
(ii)  be a local unit consisting of trained and equipped emergency response,
public health, and medical personnel formed under Section 2801 of the Public
Health Services Act, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 300hh as amended;
(iii)  be operated by a:
(A)  disaster relief organization;
(B)  licensing board;
(C)  national or regional association of licensing boards or health
practitioners;
(D)  health facility that provides comprehensive inpatient and outpatient
healthcare services, including tertiary care; or
(E)  governmental entity; or
(iv)  be designated by the Department of Health as a registration system for
purposes of this chapter.
(2) (a)  Subject to Subsection (2)(b), while an emergency declaration is in
effect, the Department of Health, a person authorized to act on behalf of the
Department of Health, or a host entity shall confirm whether a volunteer
health practitioner in Utah is registered with a registration system that
complies with Subsection (1).
(b)  The confirmation authorized under this Subsection (2) is limited to
obtaining the identity of the practitioner from the system and determining
whether the system indicates that the practitioner is licensed and in good
standing.
(3)  Upon request of a person authorized under Subsection (2), or a similarly
authorized person in another state, a registration system located in Utah
shall notify the person of the identity of a volunteer health practitioner and
whether or not the volunteer health practitioner is licensed and in good
standing.
(4)  A host entity is not required to use the services of a volunteer health
practitioner even if the volunteer health practitioner is registered with a
registration system that indicates that the practitioner is licensed and in
good standing.
