26-49-601.   Workers' compensation coverage.

(1)  For purposes of this section, "injury" means a physical or mental injury or disease for which an employee of Utah who is injured or contracts the disease in the course of the employee's employment would be entitled to benefits under Title 34A, Chapter 2, Workers' Compensation Act.

(2)  A volunteer health practitioner is considered a state employee for purposes of receiving workers' compensation medical benefits under Title 34A, Chapter 2, Workers' Compensation Act, and Chapter 3, Utah Occupational Disease Act.

(3)  The state shall provide workers' compensation benefits for a volunteer health practitioner under:

(a)  Title 34A, Chapter 2, Workers' Compensation Act; and

(b)  Title 34A, Chapter 3, Utah Occupational Disease Act.

(4) (a)  In accordance with Section 34A-2-105, the workers' compensation benefits described in Subsection (3) are the exclusive remedy against the state or an officer, agent, or employee of the state, for all injuries and occupational diseases resulting from the volunteer health practitioner's services for the state.

(b)  For purposes of Subsection (4)(a), the state is considered the employer of the volunteer health practitioner.

(5)  To compute the workers' compensation benefits for a volunteer health practitioner described in Subsection (3), the average weekly wage of the volunteer health practitioner shall be the state's average weekly wage at the time of the emergency that is the basis for the volunteer health practitioner's workers' compensation claim.

(6) (a)  The Labor Commission shall:

(i)  adopt rules, enter into agreements with other states, or take other measures to facilitate the receipt of benefits for injury or death by volunteer health practitioners who reside in other states; and

(ii)  consult with and consider the practices for filing, processing, and paying claims by agencies with similar authority in other states to promote uniformity of application of this chapter with other states that enact similar legislation.

(b)  The Labor Commission may waive or modify requirements for filing, processing, and paying claims that unreasonably burden the volunteer health practitioners.



Enacted by Chapter 242, 2008 General Session

