75-2a-103.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Adult" means a person who is:

(a)  at least 18 years of age; or

(b)  an emancipated minor.

(2)  "Advance health care directive":

(a)  includes:

(i)  a designation of an agent to make health care decisions for an adult when the adult cannot make or communicate health care decisions; or

(ii)  an expression of preferences about health care decisions;

(b)  may take one of the following forms:

(i)  a written document, voluntarily executed by an adult in accordance with the requirements of this chapter; or

(ii)  a witnessed oral statement, made in accordance with the requirements of this chapter; and

(c)  does not include a life with dignity order.

(3)  "Agent" means a person designated in an advance health care directive to make health care decisions for the declarant.

(4)  "APRN" means a person who is:

(a)  certified or licensed as an advance practice registered nurse under Subsection 58-31b-301(2)(d);

(b)  an independent practitioner;

(c)  acting under a consultation and referral plan with a physician; and

(d)  acting within the scope of practice for that person, as provided by law, rule, and specialized certification and training in that person's area of practice.

(5)  "Best interest" means that the benefits to the person resulting from a treatment outweigh the burdens to the person resulting from the treatment, taking into account:

(a)  the effect of the treatment on the physical, emotional, and cognitive functions of the person;

(b)  the degree of physical pain or discomfort caused to the person by the treatment or the withholding or withdrawal of treatment;

(c)  the degree to which the person's medical condition, the treatment, or the withholding or withdrawal of treatment, result in a severe and continuing impairment of the dignity of the person by subjecting the person to humiliation and dependency;

(d)  the effect of the treatment on the life expectancy of the person;

(e)  the prognosis of the person for recovery with and without the treatment;

(f)  the risks, side effects, and benefits of the treatment, or the withholding or withdrawal of treatment; and

(g)  the religious beliefs and basic values of the person receiving treatment, to the extent these may assist the decision maker in determining the best interest.

(6)  "Capacity to appoint an agent" means that the adult understands the consequences of appointing a particular person as agent.

(7)  "Declarant" means an adult who has completed and signed or directed the signing of an advance health care directive.

(8)  "Default surrogate" means the adult who may make decisions for an individual when either:

(a)  an agent or guardian has not been appointed; or

(b)  an agent is not able, available, or willing to make decisions for an adult.

(9)  "Emergency medical services provider" means a person who is licensed, designated, or certified under Title 26, Chapter 8a, Utah Emergency Medical Services System Act.

(10)  "Generally accepted health care standards":

(a)  is defined only for the purpose of:

(i)  this chapter and does not define the standard of care for any other purpose under Utah law; and

(ii)  enabling health care providers to interpret the statutory form set forth in Section 75-2a-117; and

(b)  means the standard of care that justifies a provider in declining to provide life sustaining care because the proposed life sustaining care:

(i)  will not prevent or reduce the deterioration in the health or functional status of a person;

(ii)  will not prevent the impending death of a person; or

(iii)  will impose more burden on the person than any expected benefit to the person.

(11)  "Health care" means any care, treatment, service, or procedure to improve, maintain, diagnose, or otherwise affect a person's physical or mental condition.

(12)  "Health care decision":

(a)  means a decision about an adult's health care made by, or on behalf of, an adult, that is communicated to a health care provider;

(b)  includes:

(i)  selection and discharge of a health care provider and a health care facility;

(ii)  approval or disapproval of diagnostic tests, procedures, programs of medication, and orders not to resuscitate; and

(iii)  directions to provide, withhold, or withdraw artificial nutrition and hydration and all other forms of health care; and

(c)  does not include decisions about an adult's financial affairs or social interactions other than as indirectly affected by the health care decision.

(13)  "Health care decision making capacity" means an adult's ability to make an informed decision about receiving or refusing health care, including:

(a)  the ability to understand the nature, extent, or probable consequences of health status and health care alternatives;

(b)  the ability to make a rational evaluation of the burdens, risks, benefits, and alternatives of accepting or rejecting health care; and

(c)  the ability to communicate a decision.

(14)  "Health care facility" means:

(a)  a health care facility as defined in Title 26, Chapter 21, Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act; and

(b)  private offices of physicians, dentists, and other health care providers licensed to provide health care under Title 58, Occupations and Professions.

(15)  "Health care provider" is as defined in Section 78B-3-403, except that it does not include an emergency medical services provider.

(16) (a)  "Life sustaining care" means any medical intervention, including procedures, administration of medication, or use of a medical device, that maintains life by sustaining, restoring, or supplanting a vital function.

(b)  "Life sustaining care" does not include care provided for the purpose of keeping a person comfortable.

(17)  "Life with dignity order" means an order, designated by the Department of Health under Section 75-2a-106(5)(a), that gives direction to health care providers, health care facilities, and emergency medical services providers regarding the specific health care decisions of the person to whom the order relates.

(18)  "Minor" means a person who:

(a)  is under 18 years of age; and

(b)  is not an emancipated minor.

(19)  "Physician" means a physician and surgeon or osteopathic surgeon licensed under Title 58, Chapter 67, Utah Medical Practice Act or Chapter 68, Utah Osteopathic Medical Practice Act.

(20)  "Physician assistant" means a person licensed as a physician assistant under Title 58, Chapter 70a, Physician Assistant Act.

(21)  "Reasonably available" means:

(a)  readily able to be contacted without undue effort; and

(b)  willing and able to act in a timely manner considering the urgency of the circumstances.

(22)  "Substituted judgment" means the standard to be applied by a surrogate when making a health care decision for an adult who previously had the capacity to make health care decisions, which requires the surrogate to consider:

(a)  specific preferences expressed by the adult:

(i)  when the adult had the capacity to make health care decisions; and

(ii)  at the time the decision is being made;

(b)  the surrogate's understanding of the adult's health care preferences;

(c)  the surrogate's understanding of what the adult would have wanted under the circumstances; and

(d)  to the extent that the preferences described in Subsections (22)(a) through (c) are unknown, the best interest of the adult.

(23)  "Surrogate" means a health care decision maker who is:

(a)  an appointed agent;

(b)  a default surrogate under the provisions of Section 75-2a-108; or

(c)  a guardian.



Amended by Chapter 99, 2009 General Session

