63B-6-502.   Other capital facility authorizations and intent language.

(1)  It is the intent of the Legislature that the University of Utah use institutional funds to plan, design, and construct:

(a)  the Health Science Lab Building under the supervision of the director of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management unless supervisory authority is delegated by the director; and

(b)  the gymnastics facility under the supervision of the director of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management unless supervisory authority is delegated by the director.

(2)  It is the intent of the Legislature that Southern Utah University use institutional funds to plan, design, and construct a science center addition under the supervision of the director of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management unless supervisory authority is delegated by the director.

(3)  It is the intent of the Legislature that Utah Valley State College use institutional funds to plan, design, and construct a student center addition under the supervision of the director of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management unless supervisory authority is delegated by the director.

(4) (a)  It is the intent of the Legislature that the Division of Facilities Construction and Management lease property at the Draper Prison to an entity for the purpose of constructing recycling and transfer facilities to employ inmates if the following conditions are satisfactorily met:

(i)  the entity assures continuous employment of state inmates;

(ii)  the lease with the entity provides an appropriate return to the state;

(iii)  the lease has an initial term of not to exceed 20 years;

(iv)  the lease protects the state from all liability;

(v)  the entity guarantees that no adverse environmental impact will occur;

(vi)  the state retains the right to:

(A)  monitor the types of wastes that are processed; and

(B)  prohibit the processing of types of wastes that are considered to be a risk to the state or surrounding property uses;

(vii)  the lease provides for adequate security arrangements;

(viii)  the entity assumes responsibility for any taxes or fees associated with the facility; and

(ix)  the entity assumes responsibility for bringing utilities to the site and any state expenditures for roads, etc.  are considered in establishing the return to the state.

(b)  Except as provided in Subsections (4)(c) and (d), the facility may be constructed without direct supervision by the Division of Facilities Construction and Management.

(c)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(b), the Division of Facilities Construction and Management shall:

(i)  review the design, plans, and specifications of the project; and

(ii)  approve them if they are appropriate.

(d)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(b), the Division of Facilities Construction and Management may:

(i)  require that the project be submitted to the local building official for plan review and inspection; and

(ii)  inspect the project.

(5)  It is the intent of the Legislature that:

(a)  the $221,497.86 authorized for the Capitol Hill Day Care Center in Subsection (4) of Laws of Utah 1992, Chapter 304, Section 56, be used for general capital improvements; and

(b)  the Building Board should, in allocating the $221,497.86, if appropriate under the Board's normal allocation and prioritization process, give preference to projects for the Division of Parks and Recreation.

