53-5c-201.   Voluntary commitment of a firearm by owner cohabitant -- Law enforcement to hold firearm.

(1) (a)  An owner cohabitant may voluntarily commit a firearm to a law enforcement agency for safekeeping if the owner cohabitant believes that another cohabitant is an immediate threat to:

(i)  himself or herself;

(ii)  the owner cohabitant; or

(iii)  any other person.

(b)  A law enforcement agency may not hold a firearm under this section if the law enforcement agency obtains the firearm in a manner other than the owner cohabitant voluntarily presenting, of his or her own free will, the firearm to the law enforcement agency at the agency's office.

(2)  Unless a firearm is an illegal firearm subject to Section 53-5c-202, a law enforcement agency that receives a firearm in accordance with this chapter shall:

(a)  record:

(i)  the owner cohabitant's name, address, and phone number;

(ii)  the firearm serial number; and

(iii)  the date that the firearm was voluntarily committed;

(b)  require the owner cohabitant to sign a document attesting that the owner cohabitant has an ownership interest in the firearm;

(c)  hold the firearm in safe custody for 60 days after the day on which it is voluntarily committed; and

(d)  upon proof of identification, return the firearm to:

(i)  the owner cohabitant after the expiration of the 60-day period or, if the owner cohabitant requests return of the firearm before the expiration of the 60-day period, at the time of the request; or

(ii)  to an owner other than the owner cohabitant in accordance with Section 53-5c-202.

(3)  The law enforcement agency shall hold the firearm for an additional 60 days:

(a)  if the initial 60-day period expires; and

(b)  the owner cohabitant requests that the law enforcement agency hold the firearm for an additional 60 days.

(4)  A law enforcement agency may not request or require that the owner cohabitant provide the name or other information of the cohabitant who poses an immediate threat or any other cohabitant.

(5)  Notwithstanding an ordinance or policy to the contrary adopted in accordance with Section 63G-2-701, a law enforcement agency shall destroy a record created under Subsection (2), Subsection 53-5c-202(4)(b)(iii), or any other record created in the application of this chapter no later than five days after:

(a)  returning a firearm in accordance with Subsection (2)(d); or

(b)  appropriating, selling, or destroying the firearm in accordance with Section 53-5c-202.

(6)  Unless otherwise provided, the provisions of Title 77, Chapter 24, Disposal of Property Received by Peace Officer, do not apply to a firearm received by a law enforcement agency in accordance with this chapter.

(7)  A law enforcement agency shall adopt a policy for the safekeeping of a firearm held in accordance with this chapter.



Enacted by Chapter 188, 2013 General Session

