13-7-4.   Business establishment, place of public accommodation, or
enterprise regulated by the state denying rights deemed public nuisance --
Investigation and conciliation -- Action to enjoin -- Civil action for damages
-- Expenses of defending action.
Any business establishment or place of public accommodation or enterprise
regulated by the state in which a violation of the rights provided in Section
13-7-3 of this chapter occurs is a public nuisance.  The operator of any such
business establishment or place of public accommodation or enterprise
regulated by the state is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance and may be
enjoined as hereinafter provided.
(1)  Upon application to the attorney general by any person denied the rights
guaranteed by Section 13-7-3, the attorney general shall investigate and seek
to conciliate the matter.
(2)  An action to enjoin any nuisance defined in this section may be brought
in the name of the state of Utah by the attorney general.  Upon the trial of
the cause, on finding that the material allegations of the complaint are true,
the court shall order such nuisance to be abated, and enjoin all persons from
maintaining or permitting such nuisance.  When any injunction as herein
provided has been granted it shall be binding upon the defendant and shall act
as an injunction in personam against the defendant throughout the state.
(3)  Any person who is denied the rights provided for in Section 13-7-3 shall
have a civil action for damages and any other remedy available in law or
equity against any person who denies him the rights provided for in Section
13-7-3 or who aids, incites or conspires to bring about such denial.
(4)  Any business establishment or place of public accommodation or
enterprises regulated by the state charged with maintaining a public nuisance
in violation of this chapter, which is determined or found not to be in
violation of this chapter, may be awarded all actual and necessary expenses
incurred in defending such action, as determined and approved by the court
having jurisdiction of the matter.
