31A-2-217.   Coordination with other states.
(1) (a)  Subject to Subsection (1)(b), the commissioner, by rule, may adopt
one or more agreements with another governmental regulatory agency, within and
outside of this state, or with the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners to address:
(i)  licensing of insurance companies;
(ii)  licensing of agents;
(iii)  regulation of premium rates and policy forms; and
(iv)  regulation of insurer insolvency and insurance receiverships.
(b)  An agreement described in Subsection (1)(a), may authorize the
commissioner to modify a requirement of this title if the commissioner
determines that the requirements under the agreement provide protections
similar to or greater than the requirements under this title.
(2) (a)  The commissioner may negotiate an interstate compact that addresses
issuing certificates of authority, if the commissioner determines that:
(i)  each state participating in the compact has requirements for issuing
certificates of authority that provide protections similar to or greater than
the requirements of this title; or
(ii)  the interstate compact contains requirements for issuing certificates of
authority that provide protections similar to or greater than the requirements
of this title.
(b)  If an interstate compact described in Subsection (2)(a) is adopted by the
Legislature, the commissioner may issue certificates of authority to insurers
in accordance with the terms of the interstate compact.
(3)  If any provision of this title conflicts with a provision of the annual
statement instructions or the National Association of Insurance Commissioners
Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual, the commissioner may, by rule,
resolve the conflict in favor of the annual statement instructions or the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners Accounting Practices and
Procedures Manual.
(4)  The commissioner may, by rule, accept the information prescribed by the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners instead of the documents
required to be filed with an application for a certificate of authority under:
(a)  Section 31A-4-103, 31A-5-204, 31A-8-205, or 31A-14-201; or
(b)  rules made by the commissioner.
(5)  Before November 30, 2001, the commissioner shall report to the Business
and Labor Interim Committee regarding the status of:
(a)  any agreements entered into under Subsection (1);
(b)  any interstate compact entered into under Subsection (2); and
(c)  any rule made under Subsections (3) and (4).
(6)  This section shall be repealed in accordance with Section 63I-1-231.
