31A-2-403.   Title and Escrow Commission created.
(1) (a)  Subject to Subsection (1)(b), there is created within the department
the Title and Escrow Commission that is comprised of five members appointed by
the governor with the consent of the Senate as follows:
(i)  four members shall each:
(A)  be or have been licensed under the title insurance line of authority;
(B)  as of the day on which the member is appointed, be or have been licensed
with the search or escrow subline of authority for at least five years; and
(C)  as of the day on which the member is appointed, not be from the same
county as another member appointed under this Subsection (1)(a)(i); and
(ii)  one member shall be a member of the general public from any county in
the state.
(b)  No more than one commission member may be appointed from a single
company.
(2) (a)  Subject to Subsection (2)(c), a commission member shall file with the
commissioner a disclosure of any position of employment or ownership interest
that the commission member has with respect to a person that is subject to the
jurisdiction of the commissioner.
(b)  The disclosure statement required by this Subsection (2) shall be:
(i)  filed by no later than the day on which the person begins that person's
appointment; and
(ii)  amended when a significant change occurs in any matter required to be
disclosed under this Subsection (2).
(c)  A commission member is not required to disclose an ownership interest
that the commission member has if the ownership interest is held as part of a
mutual fund, trust, or similar investment.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current
commission members expire, the governor shall appoint each new commission
member to a four-year term ending on June 30.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that
the terms of the commission members are staggered so that approximately half
of the commission is appointed every two years.
(c)  A commission member may not serve more than one consecutive term.
(d)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the governor,
with the consent of the Senate, shall appoint a replacement for the unexpired
term.
(e)  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Subsection (3), a commission
member serves until a successor is appointed by the governor with the consent
of the Senate.
(4)  A commission member may not receive compensation or benefits for the
commission member's service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in
accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(5)  Members of the commission shall annually select one commission member to
serve as chair.
(6) (a)  The commission shall meet at least monthly.
(b)  The commissioner may call additional meetings:
(i)  at the commissioner's discretion;
(ii)  upon the request of the chair of the commission; or
(iii)  upon the written request of three or more commission members.
(c) (i)  Three commission members constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(ii)  The action of a majority of the commission members when a quorum is
present is the action of the commission.
(7)  The commissioner shall staff the commission.
