26-21-2.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Abortion clinic" means a facility, other than a general acute or
specialty hospital, that performs abortions and provides abortion services
during the second trimester of pregnancy.
(2)  "Activities of daily living" means essential activities including:
(a)  dressing;
(b)  eating;
(c)  grooming;
(d)  bathing;
(e)  toileting;
(f)  ambulation;
(g)  transferring; and
(h)  self-administration of medication.
(3)  "Ambulatory surgical facility" means a freestanding facility, which
provides surgical services to patients not requiring hospitalization.
(4)  "Assistance with activities of daily living" means providing of or
arranging for the provision of assistance with activities of daily living.
(5) (a)  "Assisted living facility" means:
(i)  a type I assisted living facility, which is a residential facility that
provides assistance with activities of daily living and social care to two or
more residents who:
(A)  require protected living arrangements; and
(B)  are capable of achieving mobility sufficient to exit the facility without
the assistance of another person; and
(ii)  a type II assisted living facility, which is a residential facility with
a home-like setting that provides an array of coordinated supportive personal
and health care services available 24 hours per day to residents who have been
assessed under department rule to need any of these services.
(b)  Each resident in a type I or type II assisted living facility shall have
a service plan based on the assessment, which may include:
(i)  specified services of intermittent nursing care;
(ii)  administration of medication; and
(iii)  support services promoting residents' independence and self
sufficiency.
(6)  "Birthing center" means a freestanding facility, receiving maternal
clients and providing care during pregnancy, delivery, and immediately after
delivery.
(7)  "Committee" means the Health Facility Committee created in Section
26-1-7.
(8)  "Consumer" means any person not primarily engaged in the provision of
health care to individuals or in the administration of facilities or
institutions in which such care is provided and who does not hold a fiduciary
position, or have a fiduciary interest in any entity involved in the provision
of health care, and does not receive, either directly or through his spouse,
more than 1/10 of his gross income from any entity or activity relating to
health care.
(9)  "End stage renal disease facility" means a facility which furnishes
staff-assisted kidney dialysis services, self-dialysis services, or home-
dialysis services on an outpatient basis.
(10)  "Freestanding" means existing independently or physically separated from
another health care facility by fire walls and doors and administrated by
separate staff with separate records.
(11)  "General acute hospital" means a facility which provides diagnostic,
therapeutic, and rehabilitative services to both inpatients and outpatients by
or under the supervision of physicians.
(12)  "Governmental unit" means the state, or any county, municipality, or
other political subdivision or any department, division, board, or agency of
the state, a county, municipality, or other political subdivision.
(13) (a)  "Health care facility" means general acute hospitals, specialty
hospitals, home health agencies, hospices, nursing care facilities,
residential-assisted living facilities, birthing centers, ambulatory surgical
facilities, small health care facilities, abortion clinics, facilities owned
or operated by health maintenance organizations, end stage renal disease
facilities, and any other health care facility which the committee designates
by rule.
(b)  "Health care facility" does not include the offices of private physicians
or dentists, whether for individual or group practice.
(14)  "Health maintenance organization" means an organization, organized under
the laws of any state which:
(a)  is a qualified health maintenance organization under 42 U.S.C. Sec.
300e-9; or
(b) (i)  provides or otherwise makes available to enrolled participants at
least the following basic health care services: usual physician services,
hospitalization, laboratory, x-ray, emergency, and preventive services and
out-of-area coverage;
(ii)  is compensated, except for copayments, for the provision of the basic
health services listed in Subsection (14)(b)(i) to enrolled participants by a
payment which is paid on a periodic basis without regard to the date the
health services are provided and which is fixed without regard to the
frequency, extent, or kind of health services actually provided; and
(iii)  provides physicians' services primarily directly through physicians who
are either employees or partners of such organizations, or through
arrangements with individual physicians or one or more groups of physicians
organized on a group practice or individual practice basis.
(15) (a)  "Home health agency" means an agency, organization, or facility or a
subdivision of an agency, organization, or facility which employs two or more
direct care staff persons who provide licensed nursing services, therapeutic
services of physical therapy, speech therapy, occupational therapy, medical
social services, or home health aide services on a visiting basis.
(b)  "Home health agency" does not mean an individual who provides services
under the authority of a private license.
(16)  "Hospice" means a program of care for the terminally ill and their
families which occurs in a home or in a health care facility and which
provides medical, palliative, psychological, spiritual, and supportive care
and treatment.
(17)  "Nursing care facility" means a health care facility, other than a
general acute or specialty hospital, constructed, licensed, and operated to
provide patient living accommodations, 24-hour staff availability, and at
least two of the following patient services:
(a)  a selection of patient care services, under the direction and supervision
of a registered nurse, ranging from continuous medical, skilled nursing,
psychological, or other professional therapies to intermittent health-related
or paraprofessional personal care services;
(b)  a structured, supportive social living environment based on a
professionally designed and supervised treatment plan, oriented to the
individual's habilitation or rehabilitation needs; or
(c)  a supervised living environment that provides support, training, or
assistance with individual activities of daily living.
(18)  "Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, or joint stock association, and the legal successor thereof.
(19)  "Resident" means a person 21 years of age or older who:
(a)  as a result of physical or mental limitations or age requires or requests
services provided in an assisted living facility; and
(b)  does not require intensive medical or nursing services as provided in a
hospital or nursing care facility.
(20)  "Small health care facility" means a four to 16 bed facility that
provides licensed health care programs and services to residents.
(21)  "Specialty hospital" means a facility which provides specialized
diagnostic, therapeutic, or rehabilitative services in the recognized
specialty or specialties for which the hospital is licensed.
(22)  "Substantial compliance" means in a department survey of a licensee, the
department determines there is an absence of deficiencies which would harm the
physical health, mental health, safety, or welfare of patients or residents of
a licensee.
