26-21-201.   Definitions.

As used in this part:

(1)  "Clearance" means approval by the department under Section 26-21-203 for an individual to have direct patient access.

(2)  "Covered body" means a covered provider, covered contractor, or covered employer.

(3)  "Covered contractor" means a person that supplies covered individuals, by contract, to a covered employer or covered provider.

(4)  "Covered employer" means an individual who:

(a)  engages a covered individual to provide services in a private residence to:

(i)  an aged individual, as defined by department rule; or

(ii)  a disabled individual, as defined by department rule;

(b)  is not a covered provider; and

(c)  is not a licensed health care facility within the state.

(5)  "Covered individual":

(a)  means an individual:

(i)  whom a covered body engages; and

(ii)  who may have direct patient access;

(b)  includes:

(i)  a nursing assistant, as defined by department rule;

(ii)  a personal care aide, as defined by department rule;

(iii)  an individual licensed to engage in the practice of nursing under Title 58, Chapter 31b, Nurse Practice Act;

(iv)  a provider of medical, therapeutic, or social services, including a provider of laboratory and radiology services;

(v)  an executive;

(vi)  administrative staff, including a manager or other administrator;

(vii)  dietary and food service staff;

(viii)  housekeeping and maintenance staff; and

(ix)  any other individual, as defined by department rule, who has direct patient access; and

(c)  does not include a student, as defined by department rule, directly supervised by a member of the staff of the covered body or the student's instructor.

(6)  "Covered provider" means:

(a)  an end stage renal disease facility;

(b)  a long-term care hospital;

(c)  a nursing care facility;

(d)  a small health care facility;

(e)  an assisted living facility;

(f)  a hospice;

(g)  a home health agency; or

(h)  a personal care agency.

(7)  "Direct patient access" means for an individual to be in a position where the individual could, in relation to a patient or resident of the covered body who engages the individual:

(a)  cause physical or mental harm;

(b)  commit theft; or

(c)  view medical or financial records.

(8)  "Engage" means to obtain one's services:

(a)  by employment;

(b)  by contract;

(c)  as a volunteer; or

(d)  by other arrangement.

(9)  "Long-term care hospital":

(a)  means a hospital that is certified to provide long-term care services under the provisions of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 1395tt; and

(b)  does not include a critical access hospital, designated under 42 U.S.C. Sec. 1395i-4(c)(2).

(10)  "Patient" means an individual who receives health care services from one of the following covered providers:

(a)  an end stage renal disease facility;

(b)  a long-term care hospital;

(c)  a hospice;

(d)  a home health agency; or

(e)  a personal care agency.

(11)  "Personal care agency" means a health care facility defined by department rule.

(12)  "Resident" means an individual who receives health care services from one of the following covered providers:

(a)  a nursing care facility;

(b)  a small health care facility;

(c)  an assisted living facility; or

(d)  a hospice that provides living quarters as part of its services.

(13)  "Residential setting" means a place provided by a covered provider:

(a)  for residents to live as part of the services provided by the covered provider; and

(b)  where an individual who is not a resident also lives.

(14)  "Volunteer" means an individual, as defined by department rule, who provides services without pay or other compensation.



Enacted by Chapter 328, 2012 General Session

