58-37f-601.   Unlawful release or use of database information -- Criminal and civil penalties.

(1)  Any person who knowingly and intentionally releases any information in the database or knowingly and intentionally releases any information obtained from other state or federal prescription monitoring programs by means of the database in violation of the limitations under Part 3, Access, is guilty of a third degree felony.

(2) (a)  Any person who obtains or attempts to obtain information from the database or from any other state or federal prescription monitoring programs by means of the database by misrepresentation or fraud is guilty of a third degree felony.

(b)  Any person who obtains or attempts to obtain information from the database for a purpose other than a purpose authorized by this chapter or by rule is guilty of a third degree felony.

(3) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (3)(e), a person may not knowingly and intentionally use, release, publish, or otherwise make available to any other person any information obtained from the database or from any other state or federal prescription monitoring programs by means of the database for any purpose other than those specified in Part 3, Access.

(b)  Each separate violation of this Subsection (3) is a third degree felony and is also subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000.

(c)  The procedure for determining a civil violation of this Subsection (3) is in accordance with Section 58-1-108, regarding adjudicative proceedings within the division.

(d)  Civil penalties assessed under this Subsection (3) shall be deposited in the General Fund as a dedicated credit to be used by the division under Subsection 58-37f-502(1).

(e)  This Subsection (3) does not prohibit a person who obtains information from the database under Subsection 58-37f-301(2)(e), (f), (g), or (4)(c) from:

(i)  including the information in the person's medical chart or file for access by a person authorized to review the medical chart or file; or

(ii)  providing the information to a person in accordance with the requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.



Amended by Chapter 130, 2013 General Session

