63G-2-501.   State Records Committee created -- Membership -- Terms --
Vacancies -- Expenses.
(1)  There is created the State Records Committee within the Department of
Administrative Services to consist of the following seven individuals:
(a)  an individual in the private sector whose profession requires him to
create or manage records that if created by a governmental entity would be
private or controlled;
(b)  the state auditor or the auditor's designee;
(c)  the director of the Division of State History or the director's designee;
(d)  the governor or the governor's designee;
(e)  one citizen member;
(f)  one elected official representing political subdivisions; and
(g)  one individual representing the news media.
(2)  The members specified in Subsections (1)(a), (e), (f), and (g) shall be
appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current
committee members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or
reappointed member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that
approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.
(c)  Each appointed member is eligible for reappointment for one additional
term.
(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(5) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
