63G-2-603.   Requests to amend a record -- Appeals.
(1)  Proceedings of state agencies under this section shall be governed by
Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(2) (a)  Subject to Subsection (8), an individual may contest the accuracy or
completeness of any public, or private, or protected record concerning him by
requesting the governmental entity to amend the record. However, this section
does not affect the right of access to private or protected records.
(b)  The request shall contain the following information:
(i)  the requester's name, mailing address, and daytime telephone number; and
(ii)  a brief statement explaining why the governmental entity should amend
the record.
(3)  The governmental entity shall issue an order either approving or denying
the request to amend as provided in Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative
Procedures Act, or, if the act does not apply, no later than 30 days after
receipt of the request.
(4)  If the governmental entity approves the  request, it shall correct all of
its records that contain the same incorrect information as soon as practical.
A governmental entity may not disclose the record until it has amended it.
(5)  If the governmental entity denies the  request, it shall:
(a)  inform the requester in writing; and
(b)  provide a brief statement giving its reasons for denying the request.
(6) (a)  If a governmental entity denies a  request to amend a record, the
requester may submit a written statement contesting the information in the
record.
(b)  The governmental entity shall:
(i)  file the requester's statement with the disputed record if the record is
in a form such that the statement can accompany the record or make the
statement accessible if the record is not in a form such that the statement
can accompany the record; and
(ii)  disclose the requester's statement along with the information in the
record whenever the governmental entity discloses the disputed information.
(7)  The requester may appeal the denial of the request to amend a record
pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act or, if that act does not apply,
to district court.
(8)  This section does not apply to records relating to title to real or
personal property, medical records, judicial case files, or any other records
that the governmental entity determines must be maintained in their original
form to protect the public interest and to preserve the integrity of the
record system.
