63G-2-801.   Criminal penalties.

(1) (a)  A public employee or other person who has lawful access to any private, controlled, or protected record under this chapter, and who intentionally discloses, provides a copy of, or improperly uses a private, controlled, or protected record knowing that the disclosure or use is prohibited under this chapter, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

(b)  It is a defense to prosecution under Subsection (1)(a) that the actor used or released private, controlled, or protected information in the reasonable belief that the use or disclosure of the information was necessary to expose a violation of law involving government corruption, abuse of office, or misappropriation of public funds or property.

(c)  It is a defense to prosecution under Subsection (1)(a) that the record could have lawfully been released to the recipient if it had been properly classified.

(d)  It is a defense to prosecution under Subsection (1)(a) that the public employee or other person disclosed, provided, or used the record based on a good faith belief that the disclosure, provision, or use was in accordance with the law.

(2) (a)  A person who by false pretenses, bribery, or theft, gains access to or obtains a copy of any private, controlled, or protected record to which the person is not legally entitled is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

(b)  No person shall be guilty under Subsection (2)(a) who receives the record, information, or copy after the fact and without prior knowledge of or participation in the false pretenses, bribery, or theft.

(3) (a)  A public employee who intentionally refuses to release a record, the disclosure of which the employee knows is required by law, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

(b)  It is a defense to prosecution under Subsection (3)(a) that the public employee's failure to release the record was based on a good faith belief that the public employee was acting in accordance with the requirements of law.

(c)  A public employee who intentionally refuses to release a record, the disclosure of which the employee knows is required by a final unappealed order from a government entity, the records committee, or a court is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

