77-32-201.   Definitions.

For the purposes of this chapter:

(1)  "Board" means the Indigent Defense Funds Board created in Section 77-32-401.

(2)  "Compelling reason" shall include one or more of the following circumstances relating to the contracting attorney:

(a)  a conflict of interest;

(b)  the contracting attorney does not have sufficient expertise to provide an effective defense of the indigent; or

(c)  the legal defense is insufficient or lacks expertise to provide a complete defense.

(3)  "Defense resources" means a competent investigator, expert witness, scientific or medical testing, or other appropriate means necessary, for an effective defense of an indigent, but does not include legal counsel.

(4)  "Defense services provider" means a legal aid association, legal defender's office, regional legal defense association, law firm, attorney, or attorneys contracting with a county or municipality to provide legal defense and includes any combination of counties or municipalities to provide regional legal defense.

(5)  "Indigent" means a person qualifying as an indigent under indigency standards established in Part 3, Counsel for Indigents.

(6)  "Legal aid association" means a nonprofit defense association or society that provides legal defense for indigent defendants.

(7)  "Legal defender's office" means a division of county government created and authorized by the county legislative body to provide legal representation in criminal matters to indigent defendants.

(8)  "Legal defense" means to:

(a)  provide defense counsel for each indigent who faces the potential deprivation of the indigent's liberty;

(b)  afford timely representation by defense counsel;

(c)  provide the defense resources necessary for a complete defense;

(d)  assure undivided loyalty of defense counsel to the client;

(e)  provide a first appeal of right; and

(f)  prosecute other remedies before or after a conviction, considered by defense counsel to be in the interest of justice except for other and subsequent discretionary appeals or discretionary writ proceedings.

(9)  "Participating county" means a county which has complied with the provisions of this chapter for participation in the Indigent Capital Defense Trust Fund as provided in Sections 77-32-602 and 77-32-603 or the Indigent Felony Defense Trust Fund as provided in Sections 77-32-702 and 77-32-703.

(10)  "Regional legal defense" means a defense services provider which provides legal defense to any combination of counties or municipalities through an interlocal cooperation agreement pursuant to Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, and Subsection 77-32-306(3).

(11)  "Serious offense" means a felony or capital felony.

