77-32-401.   Indigent Defense Funds Board -- Members -- Administrative
support.
(1)  There is created within the Division of Finance the Indigent Defense
Funds Board composed of the following nine members:
(a)  two members who are current commissioners or county executives of
participating counties appointed by the board of directors of the Utah
Association of Counties;
(b)  one member at large appointed by the board of directors of the Utah
Association of Counties;
(c)  two members who are current county attorneys of participating counties
appointed by the Utah Prosecution Council;
(d)  the director of the Division of Finance or his designee;
(e)  one member appointed by the Administrative Office of the Courts; and
(f)  two members who are private attorneys engaged in or familiar with the
criminal defense practice appointed by the members of the board listed in
Subsections (1)(a) through (e).
(2)  Members shall serve four-year terms; however, one of the county
commissioners, and one of the county attorneys appointed to the initial board
shall serve two-year terms and the remaining other members of the initial
board shall be appointed for four-year terms.
(3)  A vacancy is created if a member appointed under:
(a)  Subsection (1)(a) no longer serves as a county commissioner or county
executive; or
(b)  Subsection (1)(c) no longer serves as a county attorney.
(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, a replacement
shall be appointed for the remaining unexpired term in the same manner as the
original appointment.
(5)  The board may contract for administrative support for up to $15,000
annually to be paid proportionally from each fund.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(7)  Per diem and expenses for board members shall be paid proportionally from
each fund.
(8)  Five members shall constitute a quorum and, if a quorum is present, the
action of a majority of the members present shall constitute the action of the
board.
