77-32-603.   County and state obligations.

(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), each participating county shall pay into the fund annually an amount calculated by multiplying the average of the percent of its population to the total population of all participating counties and of the percent its taxable value of the locally and centrally assessed property located with that county to the total taxable value of the locally and centrally assessed property to all participating counties by the total fund assessment for that year to be paid by all participating counties as is determined by the board to be sufficient such that it is unlikely that a deficit will occur in the fund in any calendar year.

(b)  The fund minimum shall be equal to or greater than 50 cents per person of all counties participating.

(c)  The amount paid by the participating county pursuant to Subsection (1) shall be the total county obligation for payment of costs pursuant to Section 77-32-601.

(2) (a)  After the first year of operation of the fund, any county that elects to initiate participation in the fund, or reestablish participation in the fund after participation was terminated, shall be required to make an equity payment in addition to the assessment provided in Subsection (1).

(b)  The equity payment shall be determined by the board and represent what the county’s equity in the fund would be if the county had made assessments into the fund for each of the previous two years.

(3)  If the fund balance after contribution by the state and participating counties is insufficient to replenish the fund annually to at least $250,000, the board by a majority vote may terminate the fund.

(4)  If the fund is terminated, all remaining funds shall continue to be administered and disbursed in accordance with the provision of this chapter until exhausted, at which time the fund shall cease to exist.

(5) (a)  If the fund runs a deficit during any calendar year, the state is responsible for the deficit.

(b)  In the calendar year following a deficit year, the board shall increase the assessment required by Subsection (1) by an amount at least equal to the deficit of the previous year, which combined amount becomes the base assessment until another deficit year occurs.

(6)  In any calendar year in which the fund runs a deficit, or is projected to run a deficit, the board shall request a supplemental appropriation to pay for the deficit from the Legislature in the following general session.  The state shall pay any or all of the reasonable and necessary money for the deficit into the Indigent Capital Defense Trust Fund.



Amended by Chapter 333, 1998 General Session

