58-11a-503.   Penalties.
(1)  Unless Subsection (2) applies, an individual who commits an act of
unlawful conduct under Section 58-11a-502 or who fails to comply with a
citation issued under this section after it is final is guilty of a class A
misdemeanor.
(2)  Sexual conduct that violates Section 58-11a-502 and Title 76, Utah
Criminal Code, shall be subject to the applicable penalties in Title 76.
(3)  Grounds for immediate suspension of a licensee's license by the division
include the issuance of a citation for violation of Subsection 58-11a-502(1),
(2), or (4).
(4) (a)  If upon inspection or investigation, the division concludes that a
person has violated the provisions of Subsection 58-11a-502(1), (2), or (4),
or a rule or order issued with respect to Subsection 58-11a-502(1), (2), or
(4), and that disciplinary action is appropriate, the director or the
director's designee from within the division shall promptly issue a citation
to the person according to this chapter and any pertinent rules, attempt to
negotiate a stipulated settlement, or notify the person to appear before an
adjudicative proceeding conducted under Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative
Procedures Act.
(i)  A person who is in violation of Subsection 58-11a-502(1), (2), or (4), as
evidenced by an uncontested citation, a stipulated settlement, or by a finding
of violation in an adjudicative proceeding, may be assessed a fine pursuant to
this Subsection (4) and may, in addition to or in lieu of, be ordered to cease
and desist from violating Subsection 58-11a-502(1), (2), or (4).
(ii)  Except for a cease and desist order, the licensure sanctions cited in
Section 58-11a-401 may not be assessed through a citation.
(b) (i)  Each citation shall be in writing and describe with particularity the
nature of the violation, including a reference to the provision of the
chapter, rule, or order alleged to have been violated.
(ii)  The citation shall clearly state that the recipient must notify the
division in writing within 20 calendar days of service of the citation if the
recipient wishes to contest the citation at a hearing conducted under Title
63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act.
(iii)  The citation shall clearly explain the consequences of failure to
timely contest the citation or to make payment of a fine assessed by the
citation within the time specified in the citation.
(c)  Each citation issued under this section, or a copy of each citation, may
be served upon a person upon whom a summons may be served in accordance with
the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure and may be made personally or upon the
person's agent by a division investigator or by a person specially designated
by the director or by mail.
(d) (i)  If within 20 calendar days from the service of a citation, the person
to whom the citation was issued fails to request a hearing to contest the
citation, the citation becomes the final order of the division and is not
subject to further agency review.
(ii)  The period to contest a citation may be extended by the division for
cause.
(e)  The division may refuse to issue or renew, suspend, revoke, or place on
probation the license of a licensee who fails to comply with a citation after
it becomes final.
(f)  The failure of an applicant for licensure to comply with a citation after
it becomes final is a ground for denial of license.
(g)  No citation may be issued under this section after the expiration of six
months following the occurrence of a violation.
(h)  Fines shall be assessed by the director or the director's designee
according to the following:
(i)  for a first offense under Subsection (4)(a), a fine of up to $1,000;
(ii)  for a second offense under Subsection (4)(a), a fine of up to $2,000;
and
(iii)  for any subsequent offense under Subsection (4)(a), a fine of up to
$2,000 for each day of continued offense.
(i) (i)  For purposes of issuing a final order under this section and
assessing a fine under Subsection (4)(h), an offense constitutes a second or
subsequent offense if:
(A)  the division previously issued a final order determining that a person
committed a first or second offense in violation of Subsection 58-11a-502(1),
(2), or (4); or
(B) (I)  the division initiated an action for a first or second offense;
(II)  no final order has been issued by the division in the action initiated
under Subsection (4)(i)(i)(B)(I);
(III)  the division determines during an investigation that occurred after the
initiation of the action under Subsection (4)(i)(i)(B)(I) that the person
committed a second or subsequent violation of Subsection 58-11a-502(1), (2),
or (4); and
(IV)  after determining that the person committed a second or subsequent
offense under Subsection (4)(i)(i)(B)(III), the division issues a final order
on the action initiated under Subsection (4)(i)(i)(B)(I).
(ii)  In issuing a final order for a second or subsequent offense under
Subsection (4)(i)(i), the division shall comply with the requirements of this
section.
(5) (a)  A penalty imposed by the director under Subsection (4)(h) shall be
deposited into the Barber, Cosmetologist/Barber, Esthetician, Electrologist,
and Nail Technician Education and Enforcement Fund.
(b)  A penalty which is not paid may be collected by the director by either
referring the matter to a collection agency or bringing an action in the
district court of the county in which the person against whom the penalty is
imposed resides or in the county where the office of the director is located.
(c)  A county attorney or the attorney general of the state is to provide
legal assistance and advice to the director in an action to collect the
penalty.
(d)  A court shall award reasonable attorney fees and costs in an action
brought to enforce the provisions of this section.
