39-6-14.   Disciplinary punishment -- Without court intervention -- Limits
and forms of punishment.
(1)  Under Section 39-6-13, any commanding officer and the adjutant general of
Utah may, in addition to or in lieu of admonition or reprimand, impose one or
more of the disciplinary punishments under this section for minor offenses
without the intervention of a military court.
(2)  Disciplinary punishment imposed by the governor, the adjutant general, a
full colonel command officer of the National Guard, or the commanding general
of a designated military unit upon officers of his command may be:
(a)  a fine or forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay per
month for three months, or $200, whichever is greater;
(b)  restriction to specific limited areas, with or without suspension from
duty, for not more than 60 consecutive days; or
(c)  detention of not more than one-half of one month's pay per month for
three months, or $200, whichever is greater.
(3)  Punishment upon other military personnel of his command may be:
(a)  fine or forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay per month
for two months, or $200, whichever is greater;
(b)  reduction of one or more pay grades, if the grade from which demoted is
within the promotion authority of the officer imposing the reduction;
(c)  extra duties, including fatigue or other duties, for not more than 60
consecutive days;
(d)  restriction to specific limited areas, with or without suspension from
duty, for not more than 60 consecutive days; or
(e)  detention of not more than one-half of one month's pay per month for two
months, or $200, whichever is greater.
(4)  Punishment imposed by an officer of the grade of major or lieutenant
colonel may be:
(a)  fine or forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay per month
for two months, or $150, whichever is greater;
(b)  reduction of no more than two pay grades, if the grade from which demoted
is within the promotion authority of the officer imposing the reduction, but
the pay of an enlisted member in a pay grade above E-4 may not be reduced more
than two pay grades;
(c)  extra duties, including fatigue or other duties, for not more than 45
consecutive days;
(d)  restriction to specific limited areas, with or without suspension of
duty, for not more than 45 consecutive days; or
(e)  detention of not more than one-half of one month's pay per month for two
months, or $150, whichever is greater.
(5)  Punishment imposed by an officer of the grade of captain or  lieutenant
may be:
(a)  fine or forfeiture of not more than one-half of one month's pay for one
month, or $50, whichever is greater;
(b)  extra duties, including fatigue or other duties, for not more than 30
consecutive days;
(c)  restriction to certain specified limits, with or without suspension from
duty, for not more than 30 consecutive days; or
(d)  reduction of one pay grade, if the grade from which demoted is within the
promotion authority of the officer imposing the reduction.
(6) (a)  Detention of pay may be for a stated period of no more than one year.
However, if the offender's term of service expires earlier, the detention
terminates on expiration.
(b)  Forfeiture of pay may not be combined with detention of pay, without an
apportionment.
(7) (a)  No two or more of the punishments of arrest in quarters, correctional
custody, extra duties, or restriction to specific areas may be imposed in
combination and for the maximum amount of time designated for each punishment.
(b)  When any of these punishments are combined to be imposed consecutively,
there shall be an apportionment of the time each punishment is imposed.
(8) (a)  In this section "correctional custody" means the physical restraint
of a person during duty or on-duty hours and may include extra duties, fatigue
duties, or hard labor.
(b)  When practicable, correctional custody may not be served in immediate
association with persons awaiting trial or held in confinement pursuant to a
trial by military or civilian court.
(9)  An officer in charge may impose upon enlisted members assigned to the
unit of which he is in charge punishments authorized under Subsection (4), as
the governor or adjutant general specifically prescribes by rule.
(10) (a)  The officer who imposes the punishment authorized in Subsection (2),
(3), or (4), or his successor in command may at any time suspend by probation
all or any part of the amount of the unexecuted punishment imposed.  He may
also suspend by probation a reduction in grade or a forfeiture imposed under
those subsections, whether or not executed.
(b)  He may at any time remit or mitigate any part or amount of the unexecuted
punishment imposed; and may set aside in whole or in part the punishment,
whether executed or unexecuted, and restore all rights, privileges, and
property affected.
(c)  He may also mitigate reduction in grade to forfeiture or detention of
pay.
(d)  When making any of the following mitigations, the mitigated punishment
may not be for a greater period than the original punishment:
(i)  arrest in quarters to restriction;
(ii)  correctional custody or confinement on extra duties to restriction; or
(iii)  extra duties to restriction.
(e)  When mitigating forfeiture of pay to detention of pay, the amount of the
detention may not be greater than the amount of the original forfeiture of
pay.
(f)  When mitigating a reduction in grade to forfeiture or detention of pay,
the amount of the forfeiture or detention may not be greater than the amount
that could have been imposed initially under this section by the officer who
imposed the punishment that was mitigated.
(11) (a)  A person punished under this section may appeal to the next superior
authority under procedures provided by regulation.
(b)  The appeal shall be promptly forwarded and acted upon, but the appellant
may, during the course of the appeal, be required to submit to the imposed
punishment.
(c)  The superior authority may exercise the same power regarding the
punishment imposed as may be exercised under Subsection (10) by the officer
who imposed the punishment.
(12)  Before acting on an appeal from any punishment imposed under Subsection
(1), (2), or (3), or from the following punishments, the acting authority
shall refer the case to a staff judge advocate of the Utah Army National Guard
or the Utah Air National Guard, or a designated legal officer of the Utah
National Guard for consideration and advice:
(a)  arrest in quarters for more than seven days;
(b)  correctional custody for more than seven days;
(c)  forfeiture of more than seven days' pay;
(d)  reduction of one or more pay grades from the fourth or a higher pay
grade;
(e)  extra duties for more than 14 days;
(f)  restriction for more than 14 days; or
(g)  detention of more than 14 days' pay.
(13) (a)  The imposition and enforcement of a disciplinary punishment under
this section for any act or omission is not a bar to trial by a criminal court
for a serious crime or offense that is part of or a similar criminal episode
arising out of the same act or omission, and not appropriately punishable
under this section.
(b)  However, the fact that a disciplinary punishment has been enforced may be
shown by the accused at trial.  If the defendant is found guilty, the
punishment shall be considered in determining the measure of punishment to be
imposed.
(14)  The governor or the adjutant general may by rule prescribe the form of
records to be kept of proceedings under this section and categories of those
proceedings to be in writing.
(15)  The punishments imposed under this section, except fines and forfeiture
of pay, may not extend beyond the termination of the duty status of the
punished individual.
