63C-4-101.   Creation of Constitutional Defense Council -- Membership --
Vacancies -- Reports -- Per diem and funding.
(1)  There is created the Constitutional Defense Council.
(2) (a)  The defense council shall consist of the following members:
(i)  the governor or the lieutenant governor, who shall serve as chair of the
council;
(ii)  the president of the Senate or the president of the Senate's designee
who shall serve as vice chair of the council;
(iii)  the speaker of the House or the speaker of the House's designee who
shall serve as vice chair of the council;
(iv)  the minority leader of the Senate or the minority leader of the Senate's
designee;
(v)  the minority leader of the House or the minority leader of the House's
designee;
(vi)  the attorney general or the attorney general's designee, who shall be
one of the attorney general's appointees, not a current career service
employee;
(vii)  the director of the School and Institutional Trust Lands
Administration;
(viii)  four elected county commissioners, county council members, or county
executives from different counties who are selected by the Utah Association of
Counties, at least one of whom shall be from a county of the first or second
class;
(ix)  the executive director of the Department of Natural Resources, who may
not vote;
(x)  the commissioner of the Department of Agriculture and Food, who may not
vote;
(xi)  the director of the Governor's Office of Economic Development, who may
not vote; and
(xii)  two elected county commissioners, county council members, or county
executives from different counties appointed by the Utah Association of
Counties, who may not vote.
(b)  The council vice chairs shall conduct a council meeting in the absence of
the chair.
(c)  If both the governor and the lieutenant governor are absent from a
meeting of the council, the governor may designate a person to attend the
meeting solely for the purpose of casting a vote on any matter on the
governor's behalf.
(3)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original
appointment.
(4) (a) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(a)(ii), the defense council
shall meet at least monthly or more frequently as needed.
(ii)  The defense council need not meet monthly if the chair, after polling
the members, determines that a majority of the members do not wish to meet.
(b)  The governor or any six members of the council may call a meeting of the
council.
(c)  Before calling a meeting, the governor or council members shall solicit
items for the agenda from other members of the council.
(d) (i)  The Constitutional Defense Council shall require that any entity that
receives monies from the Constitutional Defense Restricted Account provide
financial reports and litigation reports to the Council.
(ii)  Nothing in this Subsection (4)(d) prohibits the council from closing a
meeting under Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act, or prohibits
the council from complying with Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records
Access and Management Act.
(e)  A majority of the voting membership on the defense council is required
for a quorum to conduct council business.  A majority vote of the quorum is
required for any action taken by the defense council.
(5)  The Office of the Attorney General shall advise the defense council.
(6) (a) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the council at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(c)  Legislators on the committee shall receive compensation and expenses as
provided by law and legislative rule.
(7) (a)  The council shall be funded from the Constitutional Defense
Restricted Account created in Section 63C-4-103.
(b)  Monies appropriated for or received by the council may be expended by the
governor in consultation with the council.
