63C-4-103.   Creation of Constitutional Defense Restricted Account --
Sources of funds -- Uses of funds -- Reports.
(1)  There is created a restricted account within the General Fund known as
the Constitutional Defense Restricted Account.
(2)  The account consists of money from the following revenue sources:
(a)  money deposited to the account as required by Section 53C-3-203;
(b)  voluntary contributions;
(c)  money received by the Constitutional Defense Council from other state
agencies; and
(d)  appropriations made by the Legislature.
(3)  Funds in the account shall be nonlapsing.
(4)  The account balance may not exceed $5,000,000.
(5)  Subject to Subsection (6), the Legislature may annually appropriate money
from the Constitutional Defense Restricted Account to one or more of the
following:
(a)  the Constitutional Defense Council to carry out its duties in Section
63C-4-102;
(b)  the Public Lands Policy Coordinating Office to carry out its duties in
Section 63J-4-603;
(c)  the Office of the Governor, to be used only for the purpose of asserting,
defending, or litigating state and local government rights under R.S. 2477, in
accordance with a plan developed and approved as provided in Section
63C-4-104;
(d)  a county or association of counties to assist counties, consistent with
the purposes of the council, in pursuing issues affecting the counties; or
(e)  the Office of the Attorney General, to be used only for:
(i)  public lands counsel and assistance and litigation to the state or local
governments including asserting, defending, or litigating state and local
government rights under R.S. 2477 in accordance with a plan developed and
approved as provided in Section 63C-4-104; or
(ii)  an action filed in accordance with Section 67-5-29.
(6)  Money appropriated to the Constitutional Defense Restricted Account in
accordance with Subsection 53C-3-203(4)(a), if appropriated by the
Legislature, may only be expended by the agency to which it was appropriated
to pay:
(a)  the costs of an action filed in accordance with Section 67-5-29; and
(b)  expenses associated with an action described in Subsection (6)(a).
(7) (a)  The Constitutional Defense Council shall require that any entity that
receives money from the Constitutional Defense Restricted Account provide
financial reports and litigation reports to the Council.
(b)  Nothing in this Subsection (7) prohibits the council from closing a
meeting under Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act, or prohibits
the council from complying with Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records
Access and Management Act.
