7-2-12.   Powers of commissioner in possession -- Sale of assets --
Postpossession financing -- New deposit instruments -- Executory contracts --
Transfer of property -- Avoidance of transfers -- Avoidable preferences --
Setoff.
(1)  Upon taking possession of the institution, the commissioner may do all
things necessary to preserve its assets and business, and shall rehabilitate,
reorganize, or liquidate the affairs of the institution in a manner he
determines to be in the best interests of the institution's depositors and
creditors.  Any such determination by the commissioner may not be overruled by
a reviewing court unless it is found to be arbitrary, capricious, fraudulent,
or contrary to law.  In the event of a liquidation, he shall collect all debts
due and claims belonging to it, and may compromise all bad or doubtful debts.
He may sell, upon terms he may determine, any or all of the property of the
institution for cash or other consideration.  The commissioner shall give such
notice as the court may direct to the institution of the time and place of
hearing upon an application to the court for approval of the sale.  The
commissioner shall execute and deliver to the purchaser of any property of the
institution sold by him those deeds or instruments necessary to evidence the
passing of title.
(2)  With approval of the court and upon terms and with priority determined by
the court, the commissioner may borrow money and issue evidence of
indebtedness.  To secure repayment of the indebtedness, he may mortgage,
pledge, transfer in trust, or hypothecate any or all of the property of the
institution superior to any charge on the property for expenses of the
proceeding as provided in Section 7-2-14.  These loans may be obtained for the
purpose of facilitating liquidation, protecting or preserving the assets in
the charge of the commissioner, expediting the making of distributions to
depositors and other claimants, aiding in the reopening or reorganization of
the institution or its merger or consolidation with another institution, or
the sale of all of its assets.  Neither the commissioner nor any special
deputy or other person lawfully in charge of the affairs of the institution is
under any personal obligation to repay those loans.  The commissioner may take
any action necessary or proper to consummate the loan and to provide for its
repayment and to give bond when required for the faithful performance of all
undertakings in connection with it.  The commissioner or special deputy shall
make application to the court for approval of any loan proposed under this
section.  Notice of hearing upon the application shall be given as the court
directs.  At the hearing upon the application any stockholder or shareholder
of the institution or any depositor or other creditor of the institution may
appear and be heard on the application.  Prior to the obtaining of a court
order, the commissioner or special deputy in charge of the affairs of the
institution may make application or negotiate for the loan or loans subject to
the obtaining of the court order.
(3)  With the approval of the court pursuant to a plan of reorganization or
liquidation under Section 7-2-18, the commissioner may provide for depositors
to receive new deposit instruments from a depository institution that
purchases or receives some or all of the assets of the institution in the
possession of the commissioner.  All new deposit instruments issued by the
acquiring depository institution may, in accordance with the terms of the plan
of reorganization or liquidation, be subject to different amounts, terms, and
interest rates than the original deposit instruments of the institution in the
possession of the commissioner.  All deposit instruments issued by the
acquiring institution shall be considered new deposit obligations of the
acquiring institution.  The original deposit instruments issued by the
institution in the possession of the commissioner are not liabilities of the
acquiring institution, unless assumed by the acquiring institution. Unpaid
claims of depositors against the institution in the possession of the
commissioner continue, and may be provided for in the plan of reorganization
or liquidation.
(4)  The commissioner, after taking possession of any institution or other
person subject to the jurisdiction of the department, may terminate any
executory contract, including standby letters of credit, unexpired leases and
unexpired employment contracts, to which the institution or other person is a
party.  If the termination of an executory contract or unexpired lease
constitutes a breach of the contract or lease, the date of the breach is the
date on which the commissioner took possession of the institution.  Claims for
damages for breach of an executory contract must be filed within 30 days of
receipt of notice of the termination, and if allowed, shall be paid in the
same manner as all other allowable claims of the same priority out of the
assets of the institution available to pay claims.
(5)  With approval of the court and upon a showing by the commissioner that it
is in the best interests of the depositors and creditors, the commissioner may
transfer property on account of an indebtedness incurred by the institution
prior to the date of the taking.
(6) (a)  The commissioner may avoid any transfer of any interest of the
institution in property or any obligation incurred by the institution that is
void or voidable by a creditor under Title 25, Chapter 6.
(b)  The commissioner may avoid any transfer of any interest in real property
of the institution that is void as against or voidable by a subsequent
purchaser in good faith and for a valuable consideration of the same real
property or any portion thereof who has duly recorded his conveyance at the
time possession of the institution is taken, whether or not such a purchaser
exists.
(c)  The commissioner may avoid any transfer of any interest in property of
the institution or any obligation incurred by the institution that is invalid
or void as against, or is voidable by a creditor that extends credit to the
institution at the time possession of the institution is taken by the
commissioner, and that obtains, at such time and with respect to such credit,
a judgment lien or a lien by attachment, levy, execution, garnishment, or
other judicial lien on the property involved, whether or not such a creditor
exists.
(d)  The right of the commissioner under Subsections (6) (b) and (c) to avoid
any transfer of any interest in property of the institution shall be
unaffected by and without regard to any knowledge of the commissioner or of
any creditor of the institution.
(e)  "Transfer" means every mode, direct or indirect, absolute or conditional,
voluntary or involuntary, or disposing of or parting with property or with an
interest in property, including retention of title as a security interest.
(f)  The commissioner may avoid and recover any payment or other transfer of
any interest in property of the institution to or for the benefit of a
creditor, for or on account of an antecedent debt owed by the institution
before the transfer was made if the creditor at the time of such transfer had
reasonable cause to believe that the institution was insolvent, and if the
payment or other transfer will allow the creditor to obtain a greater
percentage of his debt than he would be entitled to under the provisions of
Section 7-2-15.  For the purposes of this subsection:
(i)  antecedent debt does not include earned wages and salaries and other
operating expenses incurred and paid in the normal course of business;
(ii)  a transfer of any interest in real property is deemed to have been made
or suffered when it became so far perfected that a subsequent good faith
purchaser of the property from the institution for a valuable consideration
could not acquire an interest superior to the transferee; and
(iii)  a transfer of property other than real property is deemed to have been
made or suffered when it became so far perfected that a creditor on a simple
contract could not acquire a lien by attachment, levy, execution, garnishment,
or other judicial lien superior to the interest of the transferee.
(g)  For purposes of this section, "date of possession" means the earlier of
the date the commissioner takes possession of a financial institution under
Title 7, Chapter 2, or the date when the commissioner enters an order
suspending payments to depositors and other creditors under Section 7-2-19.
(7) (a)  With or without the prior approval of the court, the commissioner or
any federal deposit insurance agency appointed by him as receiver or
liquidator of a depository institution closed by the commissioner under the
provisions of this chapter may setoff against the deposits or other
liabilities of the institution any debts or other obligations of the depositor
or claimant due and owing to the institution.   The amount of any setoff
against the liabilities of the institution shall be no greater than the amount
the depositor or claimant would receive pursuant to Section 7-2-15 after final
liquidation of the institution.   When the liquidation value of a depositor's
or claimant's claim against the institution will or may be less than the full
amount of the claim, setoff may be made prior to final liquidation if the
commissioner or any receiver or liquidator appointed by him can reasonably
estimate the liquidation value of the claim, and the court, after notice and
opportunity for hearing, approves the estimate for purposes of making the
setoff.  If the right of setoff is exercised, the commissioner or any receiver
or liquidator appointed by him shall give written notice to the depositor or
claimant of the amount setoff.
(b)  The existence and amount of a debtor or creditor relationship or both,
between the institution and its depositor or claimant and the right to the
proceeds in a deposit account shall be determined solely by the books and
records of the institution.
(c)  Any contract purporting to affect the right of setoff must be in writing
and signed by the depositor-debtor and an authorized officer of the
institution and be maintained as a part of the records of the institution.
(d)  Any claim that a deposit account is a special account not subject to
setoff because it was maintained for a specific purpose or to satisfy a
particular obligation other than satisfaction of or as security for an
indebtedness to the institution or that the right to the deposit actually
belongs to a third party shall not affect the right to setoff of the
commissioner or any receiver or liquidator appointed by him unless the special
nature of the account is clearly shown in the books and records of the
institution.
(e)  In the absence of any other instrument in writing, the terms and
provisions of the signature card applicable to a particular account in effect
at the time the commissioner takes possession of the institution shall be
determinative of the right of setoff by the commissioner or any receiver or
liquidator appointed by him.
(f)  Knowledge of the institution or of any director, officer, or employee of
the institution that the nature of the account is other than as shown in the
books and records of the institution shall not affect the right of setoff by
the commissioner or any receiver or liquidator appointed by him.
(g)  The liability of the commissioner or any receiver or liquidator appointed
by him for exercising a right of setoff other than as authorized by this
section shall be only to a person who establishes by the procedure set forth
in Section 7-2-6 that his interest in the account is superior to that of the
person whose debt to the institution was setoff against the account.  The
amount of any such liability shall be no greater than the amount of the setoff
and neither the commissioner or any receiver or liquidator appointed by him
shall be liable for any action taken under this section unless the action
taken is determined by the court to be arbitrary or capricious.
