32A-10-102.   General restrictions.
(1) (a) (i)  A beer retailer licensed under this part or Part 2, On-Premise
Beer Retailer Licenses, may not purchase, acquire, possess for the purpose of
resale, or sell beer except that which is lawfully purchased from:
(A)  a wholesaler licensed under this title; or
(B)  a small brewer that manufactures the beer.
(ii)  Violation of Subsection (1)(a) is a class A misdemeanor.
(b) (i)  A beer retailer shall purchase beer only from a licensed wholesaler
who is authorized by the commission to sell beer in the geographical area in
which the beer retailer is located, unless an alternate wholesaler is
authorized by the department to sell to the beer retailer as provided in
Section 32A-11-106.
(ii)  Violation of Subsection (1)(b) is a class B misdemeanor.
(2) (a)  Beer may not be sold, provided, or possessed for off-premise
consumption in a container larger than two liters.
(b)  For a special event that does not last longer than 30 days:
(i)  an on-premise beer retailer license issued by the commission as provided
in this part is not required for the sale of beer at the special event; and
(ii)  a temporary beer permit must be obtained from the commission as provided
in Part 3, Temporary Special Event Beer Permits.
(3) (a)  A minor may not be granted a beer retailer license.
(b)  The commission may not grant a beer retailer license to an applicant that
is a partnership, corporation, or limited liability company if any of the
following is a minor:
(i)  a partner or managing agent of the applicant partnership;
(ii)  a managing agent, officer, director, or stockholder who holds at least
20% of the total issued and outstanding stock of the applicant corporation; or
(iii)  a manager or member who owns at least 20% of the applicant limited
liability company.
(4)  A minor may not sell beer on the premises of a beer retailer for off-
premise consumption unless:
(a)  the sale is done under the supervision of a person 21 years of age or
older who is on the premises; and
(b)  the minor is at least 16 years of age.
(5) (a)  Subject to the other provisions of this Subsection (5), a beer
retailer shall:
(i)  display a beer sold by the retailer in an area that is visibly separate
and distinct from the area where a nonalcoholic beverage is displayed; and
(ii)  post a sign in the area described in Subsection (5)(a)(i) that:
(A)  is prominent;
(B)  is easily readable by a consumer;
(C)  meets the requirements for format made by the commission by rule made in
accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act; and
(D)  reads in print that is no smaller than .5 inches, bold type, "These
beverages contain alcohol.  Please read the label carefully."
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (5)(a), a nonalcoholic beverage may be
displayed with beer if the nonalcoholic beverage is labeled, packaged, or
advertised as a nonalcoholic beer.
(c)  The requirements of this Subsection (5) apply to a beer notwithstanding
that it is labeled, packaged, or advertised as:
(i)  a malt cooler; or
(ii)  a beverage that may provide energy.
(d)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the commission shall define by rule what constitutes an "area that is
visibly separate and distinct from the area where a nonalcoholic beverage is
displayed."
(e)  A violation of this Subsection (5) is an infraction.
