32A-10-202 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Application and renewal requirements.
(1)  A person seeking an on-premise beer retailer license under this chapter
shall file a written application with the department, in a form prescribed by
the department.  The application shall be accompanied by:
(a)  a nonrefundable $250 application fee;
(b)  an initial license fee that is refundable if a license is not granted in
the following amount:
(i)  if the on-premise beer retailer licensee does not operate as a tavern,
the initial license fee is $150; or
(ii)  if the on-premise beer retailer licensee operates as a tavern, the
initial license fee is $1,250;
(c)  written consent of the local authority or a license to sell beer at
retail for on-premise consumption granted by the local authority under Section
32A-10-101;
(d)  a copy of the applicant's current business license;
(e)  evidence of proximity to any community location, with proximity
requirements being governed by Section 32A-10-201;
(f)  a bond as specified by Section 32A-10-205;
(g)  a floor plan of the premises, including consumption areas and the area
where the applicant proposes to keep, store, and sell beer;
(h)  evidence that the on-premise beer retailer licensee is carrying public
liability insurance in an amount and form satisfactory to the department;
(i)  for a licensee that sells more than $5,000 of beer annually, evidence
that the on-premise beer retailer licensee is carrying dramshop insurance
coverage of at least $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the
aggregate;
(j)  a signed consent form stating that the on-premise beer retailer licensee
will permit any authorized representative of the commission, department, or
any peace officer unrestricted right to enter the licensee premises;
(k)  in the case of an applicant that is a partnership, corporation, or
limited liability company, proper verification evidencing that the person or
persons signing the on-premise beer retailer licensee application are
authorized to so act on the behalf of the partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company; and
(l)  any other information the department may require.
(2) (a) An on-premise beer retailer license expires on the last day of
February of each year.
(b) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b)(ii), a person desiring to
renew the person's on-premise beer retailer license shall submit by no later
than January 31:
(A)  a completed renewal application to the department; and
(B)  a renewal fee in the following amount:
(I)  if the on-premise beer retailer licensee does not operate as a tavern,
the renewal fee is $200; or
(II)  if the on-premise beer retailer licensee operates as a tavern, the
renewal fee is $1,000.
(ii)  A licensee is not required to submit a renewal fee if the licensee is:
(A)  a state agency; or
(B)  a political subdivision of the state including:
(I)  a county; or
(II)  a municipality.
(c)  Failure to meet the renewal requirements shall result in an automatic
forfeiture of the license, effective on the date the existing license expires.
(d)  A renewal statement shall be in a form as prescribed by the department.
(3)  To ensure compliance with Subsection 32A-10-206(17), the commission may
suspend or revoke a beer retailer license if a beer retailer licensee does not
immediately notify the department of any change in:
(a)  ownership of the beer retailer;
(b)  for a corporate owner, the:
(i)  corporate officers or directors; and
(ii)  shareholders holding at least 20% of the total issued and outstanding
stock of the corporation; or
(c)  for a limited liability company:
(i)  managers; or
(ii)  members owning at least 20% of the limited liability company.
(4)  An applicant need not meet the requirements of Subsections (1)(a), (b),
(c), (d), and (f) if the applicant is:
(a)  a state agency; or
(b)  a political subdivision of the state including:
(i)  a county; or
(ii)  a municipality.
(5) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (5)(c), only one state on-premise
beer retailer license is required for each building or resort facility owned
or leased by the same applicant.
(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (5)(c), separate licenses are not
required for each retail beer dispensing outlet located in the same building
or on the same resort premises owned or operated by the same applicant.
(c) (i)  Subsections (5)(a) and (5)(b) apply only if all of the retail beer
dispensing outlets in the building or resort facility operate in the same
manner.
(ii)  If the condition described in Subsection (5)(c)(i) is not met:
(A)  one state on-premise beer retailer tavern license is required for all
outlets in the same building or on the same resort premises that operate as a
tavern; and
(B)  one state on-premise beer retailer license is required for all outlets in
the same building or on the same resort premises that do not operate as a
tavern.
