32A-10-206 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Operational restrictions.
A person granted an on-premise beer retailer license and the employees and
management personnel of the on-premise beer retailer licensee shall comply
with the following conditions and requirements.  Failure to comply may result
in a suspension or revocation of the license or other disciplinary action
taken against individual employees or management personnel.
(1) (a)  Subject to Subsection (1)(b), a beer retailer licensee may sell beer
for on-premise consumption:
(i)  in an open container; and
(ii)  on draft.
(b)  Beer sold pursuant to Subsection (1)(a) shall be in a size of container
that does not exceed two liters, except that beer may not be sold to an
individual patron in a size of container that exceeds one liter.
(2)  Liquor may not be stored or sold on the premises of any on-premise beer
retailer licensee.
(3)  A patron of the on-premise beer retailer may only make a purchase from
and be served by a person employed, designated, and trained by the licensee to
sell and serve beer.
(4) (a)  Beer may not be sold, offered for sale, served, or otherwise
furnished at an on-premise beer retailer establishment after 1 a.m. and before
10 a.m.
(b)  Beer may not be sold, served, or otherwise furnished to a:
(i)  minor;
(ii)  person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;
(iii)  known habitual drunkard; or
(iv)  known interdicted person.
(c) (i)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(a), a tavern licensed under this
chapter shall remain open for one hour after the tavern ceases the sale and
service of alcoholic beverages during which time a patron of the tavern may
finish consuming a single serving of beer not exceeding 26 ounces.
(ii)  A tavern is not required to remain open:
(A)  after all patrons have vacated the premises; or
(B)  during an emergency.
(d)  Between the hours of 2 a.m. and 10 a.m. on any day a tavern may not allow
a patron to remain on the premises to consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises.
(5) (a)  Beer may not be sold at less than the cost of the beer to the
licensee.
(b)  Beer may not be sold at a special or reduced price that encourages over
consumption or intoxication.
(c)  Beer may not be sold at a special or reduced price for only certain hours
of the beer retailer's business day such as a "happy hour."
(d)  More than one alcoholic beverage may not be sold or served for the price
of a single alcoholic beverage.
(e)  An indefinite or unlimited number of alcoholic beverages may not be sold
or served during a set period for a fixed price.
(f)  An on-premise beer licensee may not engage in a public promotion
involving or offering free alcoholic beverages to the general public.
(6)  Beer may not be purchased for a patron of the on-premise beer
establishment by:
(a)  the on-premise beer licensee; or
(b)  an employee or agent of the on-premise beer licensee.
(7)  Beer sold in a sealed container by the on-premise beer retailer licensee
may be removed from the on-premise beer retailer premises.
(8) (a)  A person may not bring onto the premises of an on-premise beer
retailer licensee an alcoholic beverage for on-premise consumption.
(b)  An on-premise beer retailer licensee or an officer, manager, employee, or
agent of the licensee may not:
(i)  allow a person to bring onto the on-premise beer retailer licensee
premises an alcoholic beverage for on-premise consumption; or
(ii)  allow consumption of an alcoholic beverage described in this Subsection
(8) on its premises.
(9)  An on-premise beer retailer licensee and an employee or the licensee may
not permit a patron to carry from the premises an open container that:
(a)  is used primarily for drinking purposes; and
(b)  contains an alcoholic beverage.
(10) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (10)(b), a minor may not be:
(i)  employed by or be on the premises of an on-premise beer retailer licensee
to sell, dispense, or otherwise furnish beer; or
(ii)  on the premises of a tavern.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (10)(a), a minor who is at least 16 years of
age may be employed to enter the sale at a cash register or other sales
recording device on the premises of an on-premise beer retailer that is not a
tavern.
(11)  An employee of a licensee, while on duty, may not:
(a)  consume an alcoholic beverage; or
(b)  be intoxicated.
(12)  An on-premise beer retailer licensee shall display in a prominent place
in the on-premise beer retailer licensee:
(a)  the on-premise beer retailer license that is issued by the department;
and
(b)  a sign in large letters stating: "Warning: Driving under the influence of
alcohol or drugs is a serious crime that is prosecuted aggressively in Utah."
(13)  An on-premise beer retailer licensee may not on the premises of the on-
premise beer retailer licensee:
(a)  engage in or permit any form of gambling, as defined and proscribed in
Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling;
(b)  have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed in Title 76,
Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling; or
(c)  engage in or permit a contest, game, gaming scheme, or gaming device that
requires the risking of something of value for a return or for an outcome when
the return or outcome is based upon an element of chance, excluding the
playing of an amusement device that confers only an immediate and unrecorded
right of replay not exchangeable for value.
(14) (a)  Each on-premise beer retailer licensee shall maintain accounting and
other records and documents as the department may require.
(b)  Any on-premise beer retailer licensee or person acting for the on-premise
beer retailer licensee, who knowingly forges, falsifies, alters, cancels,
destroys, conceals, or removes an entry in a book of account or other document
of the on-premise beer retailer licensee required to be made, maintained, or
preserved by this title or the rules of the commission for the purpose of
deceiving the commission, the department, or any of their officials or
employees, is subject to:
(i)  the immediate suspension or revocation of the on-premise beer retailer
license; and
(ii)  possible criminal prosecution under Chapter 12, Criminal Offenses.
(15) (a)  A tavern licensed under this chapter may not close or cease
operation for a period longer than 240 hours, unless:
(i)  the tavern licensee notifies the department in writing at least seven
days before the closing; and
(ii)  the closure or cessation of operation is first approved by the
department.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (15)(a), in the case of emergency, a tavern
licensee shall immediately notify the department by telephone.
(c) (i)  The department may authorize a closure or cessation of operation for
a period not to exceed 60 days.
(ii)  The department may extend the initial period an additional 30 days upon:
(A)  written request of the tavern licensee; and
(B)  a showing of good cause.
(iii)  A closure or cessation of operation may not exceed a total of 90 days
without commission approval.
(d)  A notice of closure or cessation by a tavern licensee shall include:
(i)  the date of closure or cessation of operation;
(ii)  the reason for the closure or cessation of operation; and
(iii)  the dates on which the tavern licensee will reopen or resume operation.
(e)  Failure of the tavern licensee to provide notice and to obtain department
authorization before closure or cessation of operation results effective
immediately in an automatic forfeiture of:
(i)  the license; and
(ii)  the unused portion of the license fee for the remainder of the license
year.
(f)  Failure of the tavern licensee to reopen or resume operation by the
approved date results in an automatic forfeiture of:
(i)  the license; and
(ii)  the unused portion of the license fee for the remainder of the license
year.
(16)  An on-premise beer retailer license may not be transferred from one
location to another, without prior written approval of the commission.
(17) (a)  An on-premise beer retailer licensee may not sell, transfer, assign,
exchange, barter, give, or attempt in any way to dispose of the license to any
person, whether for monetary gain or not.
(b)  An on-premise beer retailer license has no monetary value for the purpose
of any type of disposition.
(18)  An on-premise beer retailer or an employee of the on-premise beer
retailer may not knowingly allow a person on the licensed premises to, in
violation of Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or Chapter
37a, Utah Drug Paraphernalia Act:
(a)  sell, distribute, possess, or use a controlled substance, as defined in
Section 58-37-2; or
(b)  use, deliver, or possess with the intent to deliver drug paraphernalia,
as defined in Section 58-37a-3.
