32A-10-306.   Operational restrictions.
(1) (a)  A person granted a temporary special event beer permit and any person
involved in the storage, sale, or service of beer at the event for which a
temporary special event the permit is issued, shall abide by this title, the
rules of the commission, and the special conditions and requirements provided
in this section.
(b)  Failure to comply as provided in Subsection (1)(a):
(i)  may result in:
(A)  an immediate revocation of the permit;
(B)  forfeiture of the surety bond; and
(C)  immediate seizure of all beer present at the event; and
(ii)  disqualifies the organization from applying for a temporary special
event beer permit under this part or a single event permit under Chapter 7,
Single Event Permits, for a period of three years from the date of revocation
of the temporary special event permit.
(c)  Beer seized under this Subsection (1) shall be returned to the
organization after the event if forfeiture proceedings are not instituted
under Section 32A-13-103.
(2)  Special conditions and requirements for temporary special event beer
permittees include the following:
(a) (i)  A person involved in the storage, sale, or service of beer at the
temporary special event is considered to be under the supervision and
direction of the permittee.
(ii)  A person involved in the sale or service of beer at the temporary
special event may not, while on duty:
(A)  consume an alcoholic beverage; or
(B)  be intoxicated.
(b) (i)  A permittee shall purchase beer stored, sold, served, and consumed at
the temporary special event from a licensed beer wholesaler or retailer.
(ii)  Beer is considered under the control of the permittee during the
temporary special event.
(iii)  An attendee of the temporary special event may not bring an alcoholic
beverage onto the premises of the temporary special event.
(c)  A permittee shall post in a prominent place in the area in which beer is
being sold, served, and consumed:
(i)  a copy of the permit; and
(ii)  a list of the operational restrictions and requirements of temporary
special event beer permittees set forth in this section.
(d)  Beer purchased for a temporary special event may not be stored, sold,
served, or consumed in a location other than that described in the application
and designated on the temporary special event permit unless the permittee
first applies for and receives approval from the commission for a change of
location.
(e) (i)  Subject to Subsection (2)(e)(ii), beer may be sold for on-premise
consumption:
(A)  in an open container; and
(B)  on draft.
(ii)  Beer sold pursuant to Subsection (2)(e)(i) shall be in a size of
container that does not exceed two liters, except that beer may not be sold to
an individual attendee in a size of container that exceeds one liter.
(f) (i)  Beer may not be sold, offered for sale, served, otherwise furnished,
or consumed between the hours of 1 a.m. and 10 a.m.
(ii)  This Subsection (2)(f) does not preclude a local authority from being
more restrictive with respect to the hours of sale, service, or consumption of
beer at a temporary special event.
(g)  Beer may not be sold, served, or otherwise furnished to a:
(i)  minor;
(ii)  person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;
(iii)  known habitual drunkard; or
(iv)  known interdicted person.
(h) (i)  Beer may not be sold at less than the cost of the beer to the
permittee.
(ii)  Beer may not be sold at a price that encourages over consumption or
intoxication.
(iii)  Beer may not be sold at a special or reduced price for only certain
hours of the day of the permitted event.
(iv)  More than one beer beverage may not be sold or served for the price of a
single beer beverage.
(v)  The permittee may not engage in a public promotion involving or offering
free beer to the general public.
(i)  The permittee and its employees may not permit an attendee to carry from
the premises an open container that:
(i)  is used for drinking purposes; and
(ii)  contains an alcoholic beverage.
(j)  A minor may not sell, serve, dispense, or handle any beer at a temporary
special event.
(3)  The permittee shall maintain an expense and revenue ledger or record
showing:
(a)  expenditures made for beer; and
(b)  the revenue from sale of beer.
(4)  A temporary special event beer permit may not be transferred.
(5)  A temporary special event beer permittee may not on the premises serviced
by the permittee:
(a)  engage in or allow any form of gambling, as defined and proscribed in
Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling;
(b)  have any video gaming device, as defined and proscribed by Title 76,
Chapter 10, Part 11, Gambling; or
(c)  engage in or permit a contest, game, gaming scheme, or gaming device that
requires the risking of something of value for a return or for an outcome when
the return or outcome is based upon an element of chance, excluding the
playing of an amusement device that confers only an immediate and unrecorded
right of replay not exchangeable for value.
(6)  A temporary special event beer permittee or an employee of the temporary
special event beer permittee may not knowingly allow a person at an event to,
in violation of Title 58, Chapter 37, Utah Controlled Substances Act, or
Chapter 37a, Utah Drug Paraphernalia Act:
(a)  sell, distribute, possess, or use a controlled substance, as defined in
Section 58-37-2; or
(b)  use, deliver, or possess with the intent to deliver drug paraphernalia,
as defined in Section 58-37a-3.
