11-13-103.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Additional project capacity" means electric generating capacity provided
by a generating unit that first produces electricity on or after May 6, 2002
and that is constructed or installed at or adjacent to the site of a project
that first produced electricity before May 6, 2002, regardless of whether:
(a)  the owners of the new generating unit are the same as or different from
the owner of the project; and
(b)  the purchasers of electricity from the new generating unit are the same
as or different from the purchasers of electricity from the project.
(2)  "Board" means the Permanent Community Impact Fund Board created by
Section 9-4-304, and its successors.
(3)  "Candidate" means one or more of:
(a)  the state;
(b)  a county, municipality, school district, local district, special service
district, or other political subdivision of the state; and
(c)  a prosecution district.
(4)  "Commercial project entity" means a project entity, defined in Subsection
(12), that:
(a)  has no taxing authority; and
(b)  is not supported in whole or in part by and does not expend or disburse
tax revenues.
(5)  "Direct impacts" means an increase in the need for public facilities or
services that is attributable to the project or facilities providing
additional project capacity, except impacts resulting from the construction or
operation of a facility that is:
(a)  owned by an owner other than the owner of the project or of the
facilities providing additional project capacity; and
(b)  used to furnish fuel, construction, or operation materials for use in the
project.
(6)  "Electric interlocal entity" means an interlocal entity described in
Subsection 11-13-203(3).
(7)  "Energy services interlocal entity" means an interlocal entity that is
described in Subsection 11-13-203(4).
(8) (a)  "Estimated electric requirements," when used with respect to a
qualified energy services interlocal entity, includes any of the following
that meets the requirements of Subsection (8)(b):
(i)  generation capacity;
(ii)  generation output; or
(iii)  an electric energy production facility.
(b)  An item listed in Subsection (8)(a) is included in "estimated electric
requirements" if it is needed by the qualified energy services interlocal
entity to perform the qualified energy services interlocal entity's
contractual or legal obligations to any of its members.
(9)  "Interlocal entity" means:
(a)  a Utah interlocal entity, an electric interlocal entity, or an energy
services interlocal entity; or
(b)  a separate legal or administrative entity created under Section
11-13-205.
(10)  "Out-of-state public agency" means a public agency as defined in
Subsection (13)(c), (d), or (e).
(11) (a)  "Project":
(i)  means an electric generation and transmission facility owned by a Utah
interlocal entity or an electric interlocal entity; and
(ii)  includes fuel or fuel transportation facilities and water facilities
owned by that Utah interlocal entity or electric interlocal entity and
required for the generation and transmission facility.
(b)  "Project" includes a project entity’s ownership interest in:
(i)  facilities that provide additional project capacity; and
(ii)  additional generating, transmission, fuel, fuel transportation, water,
or other facilities added to a project.
(12)  "Project entity" means a Utah interlocal entity or an electric
interlocal entity that owns a project.
(13)  "Public agency" means:
(a)  a city, town, county, school district, local district, special service
district, or other political subdivision of the state;
(b)  the state or any department, division, or agency of the state;
(c)  any agency of the United States;
(d)  any political subdivision or agency of another state or the District of
Columbia including any interlocal cooperation or joint powers agency formed
under the authority of the law of the other state or the District of Columbia;
and
(e)  any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community
which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided
by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
(14)  "Qualified energy services interlocal entity" means an energy services
interlocal entity that at the time that the energy services interlocal entity
acquires its interest in facilities providing additional project capacity has
at least five members that are Utah public agencies.
(15)  "Utah interlocal entity":
(a)  means an interlocal entity described in Subsection 11-13-203(2); and
(b)  includes a separate legal or administrative entity created under Laws of
Utah 1977, Chapter 47, Section 3, as amended.
(16)  "Utah public agency" means a public agency under Subsection (13)(a) or
(b).
