11-13-203.   Interlocal entities -- Agreement to approve the creation of an interlocal entity -- Utah interlocal entity may become electric interlocal entity or energy services interlocal entity.

(1)  An interlocal entity is:

(a)  separate from the public agencies that create it;

(b)  a body politic and corporate; and

(c)  a political subdivision of the state.

(2)  Any two or more Utah public agencies may enter into an agreement to approve the creation of a Utah interlocal entity to accomplish the purpose of their joint or cooperative action, including undertaking and financing a facility or improvement to provide the service contemplated by that agreement.

(3) (a)  A Utah public agency and one or more public agencies may enter into an agreement to approve the creation of an electric interlocal entity to accomplish the purpose of their joint or cooperative action if that purpose is to participate in the undertaking or financing of:

(i)  facilities to provide additional project capacity;

(ii)  common facilities under Title 54, Chapter 9, Electric Power Facilities Act; or

(iii)  electric generation or transmission facilities.

(b)  By agreement with one or more public agencies that are not parties to the agreement creating it, a Utah interlocal entity may be reorganized as an electric interlocal entity if:

(i)  the public agencies that are parties to the agreement creating the Utah interlocal entity authorize, in the same manner required to amend the agreement creating the Utah interlocal entity, the Utah interlocal entity to be reorganized as an electric interlocal entity; and

(ii)  the purpose of the joint or cooperative action to be accomplished by the electric interlocal entity meets the requirements of Subsection (3)(a).

(4) (a)  Two or more Utah public agencies may enter into an agreement with one another or with one or more public agencies to approve the creation of an energy services interlocal entity to accomplish the purposes of their joint and cooperative action with respect to facilities, services, and improvements necessary or desirable with respect to the acquisition, generation, transmission, management, and distribution of electric energy for the use and benefit of the public agencies that enter into the agreement.

(b) (i)  A Utah interlocal entity that was created to facilitate the transmission or supply of electric power may, by resolution adopted by its governing body, elect to become an energy services interlocal entity.

(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(b)(i), a Utah interlocal entity that is also a project entity may not elect to become an energy services interlocal entity.

(iii)  An election under Subsection (4)(b)(i) does not alter, limit, or affect the validity or enforceability of a previously executed contract, agreement, bond, or other obligation of the Utah interlocal entity making the election.

