11-13-219.   Publication of resolutions or agreements -- Contesting legality
of resolution or agreement.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Enactment" means:
(i)  a resolution adopted or proceedings taken by a governing body under the
authority of this chapter, and includes a resolution, indenture, or other
instrument providing for the issuance of bonds; and
(ii)  an agreement or other instrument that is authorized, executed, or
approved by a governing body under the authority of this chapter.
(b)  "Governing body" means:
(i)  the legislative body of a public agency; and
(ii)  the governing body of an interlocal entity created under this chapter.
(c)  "Notice of bonds" means the notice authorized by Subsection (3)(d).
(d)  "Notice of agreement" means the notice authorized by Subsection (3)(c).
(e)  "Official newspaper" means the newspaper selected by a governing body
under Subsection (4)(b) to publish its enactments.
(2)  Any enactment taken or made under the authority of this chapter is not
subject to referendum.
(3) (a)  A governing body need not publish any enactment taken or made under
the authority of this chapter.
(b)  A governing body may provide for the publication of any enactment taken
or made by it under the authority of this chapter according to the publication
requirements established by this section.
(c) (i)  If the enactment is an agreement, document, or other instrument, or a
resolution or other proceeding authorizing or approving an agreement,
document, or other instrument, the governing body may, instead of publishing
the full text of the agreement, resolution, or other proceeding, publish a
notice of agreement containing:
(A)  the names of the parties to the agreement;
(B)  the general subject matter of the agreement;
(C)  the term of the agreement;
(D)  a description of the payment obligations, if any, of the parties to the
agreement; and
(E)  a statement that the resolution and agreement will be available for
review at the governing body's principal place of business during regular
business hours for 30 days after the publication of the notice of agreement.
(ii)  The governing body shall make a copy of the resolution or other
proceeding and a copy of the contract available at its principal place of
business during regular business hours for 30 days after the publication of
the notice of agreement.
(d)  If the enactment is a resolution or other proceeding authorizing the
issuance of bonds, the governing body may, instead of publishing the full text
of the resolution or other proceeding and the documents pertaining to the
issuance of bonds, publish a notice of bonds that contains the information
described in Subsection 11-14-316(2).
(4) (a)  If the governing body chooses to publish an enactment, notice of
bonds, or notice of agreement, the governing body shall comply with the
requirements of this Subsection (4).
(b)  If there is more than one newspaper of general circulation, or more than
one newspaper, published within the boundaries of the governing body, the
governing body may designate one of those newspapers as the official newspaper
for all publications made under this section.
(c) (i) (A)  The governing body shall publish the enactment, notice of bonds,
or notice of agreement in:
(I)  the official newspaper;
(II)  the newspaper published in the municipality in which the principal
office of the governmental entity is located; or
(III)  if no newspaper is published in that municipality, in a newspaper
having general circulation in the municipality; and
(B)  as required in Section 45-1-101.
(ii)  The governing body may publish the enactment, notice of bonds, or notice
of agreement:
(A) (I)  in a newspaper of general circulation; or
(II)  in a newspaper that is published within the boundaries of any public
agency that is a party to the enactment or agreement; and
(B)  as required in Section 45-1-101.
(5) (a)  Any person in interest may contest the legality of an enactment or
any action performed or instrument issued under the authority of the enactment
for 30 days after the publication of the enactment, notice of bonds, or notice
of agreement.
(b)  After the 30 days have passed, no one may contest the regularity,
formality, or legality of the enactment or any action performed or instrument
issued under the authority of the enactment for any cause whatsoever.
