11-13-306.   Procedure in case of inability to formulate contract for impact alleviation.

(1) If the project entity or other public agency and a candidate are unable to agree upon the terms of an impact alleviation contract or to agree that the candidate has or will experience any direct impacts, the project entity or other public agency and the candidate shall each have the right to submit the question of whether or not these direct impacts have been or will be experienced, and any other questions regarding the terms of the impact alleviation contract to the board for its determination.

(2)  Within 40 days after receiving a notice of a request for determination, the board shall hold a public hearing on the questions at issue, at which hearing the parties shall have an opportunity to present evidence. Within 20 days after the conclusion of the hearing, the board shall enter an order embodying its determination and directing the parties to act in accordance with it. The order shall contain findings of facts and conclusions of law setting forth the reasons for the board's determination. To the extent that the order pertains to the terms of an impact alleviation contract, the terms of the order shall satisfy the criteria for contract terms set forth in Section 11-13-305.

(3)  At any time 20 or more days before the hearing begins, either party may serve upon the adverse party an offer to agree to specific terms or payments. If within 10 days after the service of the offer the adverse party serves written notice that the offer is accepted, either party may then file the offer and notice of acceptance, together with proof of service thereof, and the board shall enter a corresponding order. An offer not accepted shall be deemed withdrawn and evidence concerning it is not admissible except in a proceeding to determine costs. If the order finally obtained by the offeree is not more favorable than the offer, the offeree shall pay the costs incurred after the making of the offer, including a reasonable attorney's fee. The fact that an offer is made but not accepted does not preclude a subsequent offer.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 286, 2002 General Session

