24-1-8.   Criminal procedures.

(1)  In cases where an owner is criminally prosecuted for conduct giving rise to forfeiture, the prosecuting attorney may elect to forfeit the owner's interest in the property civilly or criminally, provided that no civil forfeiture judgment may be entered with respect to the property of a defendant who is acquitted of the offense on which the forfeiture claim is based.

(2)  If the prosecuting attorney elects to criminally forfeit the owner's interest in the property, the information or indictment shall state that the owner's interest in the specifically described property is subject to criminal forfeiture and the basis for the forfeiture.

(3) (a)  Upon application of the prosecuting attorney, the court may enter restraining orders or injunctions, or take other reasonable action to preserve for forfeiture under this section any forfeitable property if, after notice to persons known, or discoverable after due diligence, to have an interest in the property and after affording them an opportunity for a hearing, the court determines that:

(i)  there is a substantial probability that the state will prevail on the issue of forfeiture and that failure to enter the order will result in the property being sold, transferred, destroyed, or removed from the jurisdiction of the court or otherwise made unavailable for forfeiture; and

(ii)  the need to preserve the availability of the property or prevent its sale, transfer, destruction, or removal through the entry of the requested order outweighs the hardship against any party against whom the order is to be entered.

(b)  A temporary restraining order may be entered ex parte upon application of the prosecuting attorney before or after an information or indictment has been filed with respect to the property, if the prosecuting attorney demonstrates that:

(i)  there is probable cause to believe that the property with respect to which the order is sought would, in the event of a conviction, be subject to forfeiture under this section; and

(ii)  provision of notice would jeopardize the availability of the property for forfeiture or would jeopardize an ongoing criminal investigation.

(c)  The temporary order expires not more than 10 days after entry unless extended for good cause shown or unless the party against whom it is entered consents to an extension.  An adversarial hearing concerning an order entered under this section shall be held as soon as practicable and prior to the expiration of the temporary order.

(d)  The court is not bound by the Utah Rules of Evidence regarding evidence it may receive and consider at any hearing under this section.

(4) (a)  Upon conviction by a jury of an owner for conduct giving rise to criminal forfeiture, the jury shall be instructed and asked to return a special verdict as to the extent of the property identified in the information or indictment, if any, that is forfeitable.

(b)  Whether property is forfeitable shall be proven beyond a reasonable doubt.

(5) (a)  Upon conviction of a person for violating any provision of state law subjecting an owner's property to forfeiture and upon the jury's special verdict that the property is forfeitable, the court shall enter a judgment and order the property forfeited to the state upon the terms stated by the court in its order.

(b)  Following the entry of an order declaring property forfeited, the court may, upon application of the prosecuting attorney, enter appropriate restraining orders or injunctions, require the execution of satisfactory performance bonds, appoint receivers, conservators, appraisers, accountants, or trustees, or take any other action to protect the interest of the state in property ordered forfeited.

(6) (a)  After property is ordered forfeited under this section, the seizing agency shall direct the disposition of the property under Section 24-1-17.  Any property right or interest not exercisable by or transferable for value to the state expires and does not revert to the defendant.  The defendant or any person acting in concert with or on behalf of the defendant is not eligible to purchase forfeited property at any sale held by the seizing agency unless approved by the judge.

(b)  The court may stay the sale or disposition of the property pending the conclusion of any appeal of the criminal case giving rise to the forfeiture if the defendant demonstrates that proceeding with the sale or disposition of the property may result in irreparable injury, harm or loss to the defendant.

(7)  Except under Subsection (3) or (10), a party claiming an interest in property subject to criminal forfeiture under this section:

(a)  may not intervene in a trial or appeal of a criminal case involving the forfeiture of property under this section; and

(b)  may not commence an action at law or equity against the state or the county concerning the validity of the party's alleged interests in the property subsequent to the filing of an indictment or an information alleging that the property is subject to forfeiture under this section.

(8)  The district court of the state which has jurisdiction of a case under this part may enter orders under this section without regard to the location of any property which may be subject to forfeiture under this section, or which has been ordered forfeited under this section.

(9)  To facilitate the identification or location of property declared forfeited and to facilitate the disposition of petitions for remission or mitigation of forfeiture, after the entry of an order declaring property forfeited to the state, the court may upon application of the prosecuting attorney order that the testimony of any witness relating to the property forfeited be taken by deposition, and that any book, paper, document, record, recording, or other material not privileged shall be produced as provided for depositions and discovery under the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.

(10) (a)  Following the entry of an order of forfeiture under this section, the prosecuting attorney shall publish notice of the order's intent to dispose of the property as the court may direct.  The prosecuting attorney shall also provide direct written notice to any person known to have an alleged interest in the property subject to the order of forfeiture.

(b)  Any person, other than the defendant, asserting a legal interest in property which has been ordered forfeited to the state under this section may, within 30 days of the final publication of notice or the person's receipt of written notice under Subsection (10)(a), whichever is earlier, petition the court for a hearing to adjudicate the validity of the person's alleged interest in the property.  Any genuine issue of material fact, including issues of standing, is triable to a jury upon demand of any party.

(c)  The petition shall be in writing and signed by the petitioner under penalty of perjury.  It shall set forth the nature and extent of the petitioner's right, title, or interest in the property, the time and circumstances of the petitioner's acquisition of the right, title, or interest in the property, and any additional facts supporting the petitioner's claim and the relief sought.

(d)  The trial or hearing on the petition shall be expedited to the extent practicable.  The court may consolidate a trial or hearing on the petition and any petition filed by any other person under this section other than the defendant.  The court shall permit the parties to conduct pretrial discovery pursuant to the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.

(e)  At the trial or hearing, the petitioner may testify and present evidence and witnesses on the petitioner's own behalf and cross-examine witnesses who appear at the hearing.  The prosecuting attorney may present evidence and witnesses in rebuttal and in defense of the claim to the property and cross-examine witnesses who appear.  In addition to testimony and evidence presented at the trial or hearing, the court may consider the relevant portion of the record of the criminal case which resulted in the order of forfeiture.  Any trial or hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the Utah Rules of Evidence.

(f)  The court shall amend the order of forfeiture in accordance with its determination, if after the trial or hearing, the court or jury determines that the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence that:

(i)  the petitioner has a legal right, title, or interest in the property, and the right, title, or interest renders the order of forfeiture invalid in whole or in part because the right, title, or interest was vested in the petitioner rather than the defendant or was superior to any right, title, or interest of the defendant at the time of the commission of the acts or conduct which gave rise to the forfeiture of the property under this section; or

(ii)  the petitioner acquired the right, title or interest in the property in a bona fide transaction for value and, at the time of such acquisition, the petitioner did not know that the property was subject to forfeiture.

(g)  Following the court's disposition of all petitions filed under this Subsection (10), or if no petitions are filed following the expiration of the period provided in Subsection (10)(b) for the filing of petitions, the state has clear title to property subject to the order of forfeiture and may warrant good title to any subsequent purchaser or transferee.

