24-1-20.   State Law Enforcement Forfeiture Account created -- Revenue
sources -- Use of account designated.
(1) (a)  There is created in the General Fund a restricted account called the
State Law Enforcement Forfeiture Account.
(b)  All monies awarded to the Department of Public Safety or the Department
of Corrections, or any division or agency within either department, through
the Crime Reduction Assistance Program created in Section 24-1-19 shall be
deposited into the State Law Enforcement Forfeiture Account.
(c)  All monies previously deposited, or currently held in the Drug Forfeiture
Account created in Section 58-37-20, and that were in that account when it was
repealed by Initiative B, which passed in 2000, and which became effective
March 29, 2001, shall be transferred to and deposited in the State Law
Enforcement Forfeiture Account created in this Subsection (1).
(2)  The Department of Public Safety and the Department of Corrections may
expend amounts as appropriated by the Legislature from the State Law
Enforcement Forfeiture Account for law enforcement purposes or controlled
substance law enforcement purposes as specified in Section 24-1-19.
(3)  That portion of funds forfeited or that are required to be disbursed to
other governmental entities under existing contractual agreements or Utah
statutory requirements are exempt from this section.
(4)  Funds forfeited as a result of the Salt Lake Airport Drug Program
operated by the Department of Public Safety, not to exceed the Department of
Public Safety's expenditure to that program, are exempt from this section.
(5)  The Department of Public Safety and the Department of Corrections, as
part of the annual legislative budget hearings, shall provide to the
legislative Executive Offices and Criminal Justice Appropriations Subcommittee
a complete accounting of expenditures and revenues from the funds received
under this section.
(6)  The Legislature may annually provide, in an appropriations act,
legislative direction for anticipated expenditures of the monies received
under this section.
