11-44-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Cost savings" means a decrease in an expenditure, including a future
replacement expenditure, by a political subdivision resulting from an energy
efficiency measure adopted under this chapter.
(2) (a)  "Energy efficiency measure" means an action taken by a political
subdivision that reduces the political subdivision's:
(i)  energy consumption;
(ii)  water use; or
(iii)  sewage use.
(b)  "Energy efficiency measure" includes:
(i)  insulation installed in a wall, roof, floor, foundation, or heating and
cooling distribution system;
(ii)  a storm window or door, multiglazed window or door, heat absorbing or
heat reflective glazed and coated window or door system, additional glazing,
or reduction in glass area;
(iii)  an automatic energy control system;
(iv)  a heating, ventilating, or air conditioning and distribution system
modification or replacement in a facility;
(v)  caulking and weatherstripping;
(vi)  a replacement or modification of a lighting fixture to increase the
energy efficiency of the lighting system without increasing the overall
illumination of a facility unless the increase in illumination is necessary to
conform to the applicable building code for the proposed lighting system;
(vii)  an energy recovery system;
(viii)  a cogeneration system that produces steam or another form of energy
for use primarily within a facility;
(ix)  a renewable energy or alternate energy system;
(x)  a change in operation or maintenance practice;
(xi)  a procurement of a low-cost energy supply, including electricity,
natural gas, or water;
(xii)  an indoor air quality improvement that conforms to applicable building
code requirements;
(xiii)  a daylighting system;
(xiv)  a building operation program that provides cost savings, including
computerized energy management and consumption tracking programs or staff and
occupant training; or
(xv)  a service to reduce utility costs by identifying utility errors and
optimizing rate schedules.
(3)  "Energy savings agreement" means a contract between a political
subdivision and a qualified energy service provider for evaluation,
recommendation, and implementation of one or more energy efficiency measures.
(4) (a)  "Facility" means a building, structure, or other improvement that is
constructed on property owned by a political subdivision.
(b)  "Facility" does not mean a privately owned structure that is located on
property owned by a political subdivision.
(5)  "Facility energy efficiency program" means a program established by a
political subdivision under this chapter to adopt an energy efficiency
measure.
(6)  "Qualified energy service provider" means a person who:
(a)  has a record of successful energy savings agreements; or
(b)  has:
(i)  experience in the design, implementation, and installation of energy
efficiency measures;
(ii)  technical capabilities to ensure that an energy efficient measure
generates cost savings; and
(iii)  the ability to secure the financing necessary to support the proposed
energy efficiency measure.
