4-39-104.   Advisory council.
(1)  The department shall establish an advisory council to give advice and
make recommendations on policies and rules adopted pursuant to this chapter.
(2)  The advisory council shall consist of eight members appointed by the
commissioner of agriculture to four-year terms as follows:
(a)  two members, recommended by the executive director of the Department of
Natural Resources, shall represent the Department of Natural Resources;
(b)  two members shall represent the Department of Agriculture, one of whom
shall be the state veterinarian;
(c)  two members shall represent the livestock industry, one of whom shall
represent the domesticated elk industry; and
(d)  two members, recommended by the executive director of the Department of
Natural Resources from a list of candidates submitted by the Division of
Wildlife Resources, shall represent wildlife interests.
(3)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2), the commissioner
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that
approximately half of the council is appointed every two years.
(4)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(5)  A majority of the advisory council constitutes a quorum.  A quorum is
necessary for the council to act.
(6) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the department at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
