4-39-203.   License required to operate a domesticated elk facility.
(1)  A person may not operate a domesticated elk facility without first
obtaining a license from the department.
(2) (a)  Each application for a license to operate a domesticated elk facility
shall be accompanied by a fee.
(b)  The fee shall be established by the department in accordance with Section
63J-1-504.
(3)  Each applicant for a domesticated elk facility license shall submit an
application providing all information in the form and manner as required by
the department.
(4) (a)  No license shall be issued until the department has inspected and
approved the facility.
(b)  The department shall:
(i)  notify the Division of Wildlife Resources at least 48 hours prior to a
scheduled inspection so that a Division of Wildlife Resources representative
may be present at the inspection; and
(ii)  provide the Division of Wildlife Resources with copies of all licensing
and inspection reports.
(5)  Each separate location of the domesticated elk operation shall be
licensed separately.
(6) (a)  If a domesticated elk facility is operated under more than one
business name from a single location, the name of each operation shall be
listed with the department in the form and manner required by the department.
(b)  The department shall require that a separate fee be paid for each
business name listed.
(c)  If a domesticated elk facility operates under more than one business name
from a single location, the facility shall maintain separate records.
(7)  Each person or business entity with an equity interest in the
domesticated elk shall be listed on the application for license.
(8)  Each domesticated elk facility license shall expire on July 1 in the year
following the year of issuance.
(9)  Each licensee shall report to the department, in the form and manner
required by the department, any change in the information provided in the
licensee's application or in the reports previously submitted, within 15 days
of each change.
(10)  Licenses issued pursuant to this section are not transferable.
