20A-9-101.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1) (a)  "Candidates for elective office" means persons selected by a
registered political party as party candidates to run in a regular general
election.
(b)  "Candidates for elective office" does not mean candidates for:
(i)  justice or judge of court of record or not of record;
(ii)  presidential elector;
(iii)  any political party offices; and
(iv)  municipal or local district offices.
(2)  "Constitutional office" means the state offices of governor, lieutenant
governor, attorney general, state auditor, and state treasurer.
(3) (a)  "County office" means an elective office where the office holder is
selected by voters entirely within one county.
(b)  "County office" does not mean:
(i)  the office of justice or judge of any court of record or not of record;
(ii)  the office of presidential elector;
(iii)  any political party offices;
(iv)  any municipal or local district offices; and
(v)  the office of United States Senator and United States Representative.
(4)  "Federal office" means an elective office for United States Senator and
United States Representative.
(5)  "Filing officer" means:
(a)  the lieutenant governor, for:
(i)  offices whose political division contains territory in two or more
counties;
(ii)  the office of United States Senator and United States Representative;
and
(iii)  all constitutional offices;
(b)  the county clerk, for county offices and local school district offices;
(c)  the city or town clerk, for municipal offices; and
(d)  the local district clerk, for local district offices.
(6)  "Local district office" means an elected office in a local district.
(7)  "Local government office" includes county offices, municipal offices, and
local district offices and other elective offices selected by the voters from
a political division entirely within one county.
(8) (a)  "Multi-county office" means an elective office where the office
holder is selected by the voters from more than one county.
(b)  "Multi-county office" does not mean:
(i)  a county office;
(ii)  a federal office;
(iii)  the office of justice or judge of any court of record or not of record;
(iv)  the office of presidential elector;
(v)  any political party offices; and
(vi)  any municipal or local district offices.
(9)  "Municipal office" means an elective office in a municipality.
(10) (a)  "Political division" means a geographic unit from which an office
holder is elected and that an office holder represents.
(b)  "Political division" includes a county, a city, a town, a local district,
a school district, a legislative district, and a county prosecution district.
