20A-9-202.   Declarations of candidacy for regular general elections --
Requirements for candidates.
(1) (a)  Each person seeking to become a candidate for elective office for any
county office that is to be filled at the next regular general election shall:
(i)  file a declaration of candidacy in person with the county clerk on or
after the second Friday in March and before 5 p.m. on the third Friday in
March before the next regular general election; and
(ii)  pay the filing fee.
(b)  Each person intending to become a candidate for any legislative office or
multicounty office that is to be filled at the next regular general election
shall:
(i)  file a declaration of candidacy in person with either the lieutenant
governor or the county clerk in the candidate's county of residence on or
after the second Friday in March and before 5 p.m. on the third Friday in
March before the next regular general election; and
(ii)  pay the filing fee.
(c) (i)  Each county clerk who receives a declaration of candidacy from a
candidate for multicounty office shall transmit the filing fee and a copy of
the candidate's declaration of candidacy to the lieutenant governor within one
working day after it is filed.
(ii)  Each day during the filing period, each county clerk shall notify the
lieutenant governor electronically or by telephone of legislative candidates
who have filed in their office.
(d)  Each person seeking to become a candidate for elective office for any
federal office or constitutional office that is to be filled at the next
regular general election shall:
(i)  file a declaration of candidacy in person with the lieutenant governor on
or after the second Friday in March and before 5 p.m. on the third Friday in
March before the next regular general election; and
(ii)  pay the filing fee.
(e)  Each person seeking the office of lieutenant governor, the office of
district attorney, or the office of President or Vice President of the United
States shall comply with the specific declaration of candidacy requirements
established by this section.
(2) (a)  Each person intending to become a candidate for the office of
district attorney within a multicounty prosecution district that is to be
filled at the next regular general election shall:
(i)  file a declaration of candidacy with the clerk designated in the
interlocal agreement creating the prosecution district on or after the second
Friday in March and before 5 p.m. on the third Friday in March before the next
regular general election; and
(ii)  pay the filing fee.
(b)  The designated clerk shall provide to the county clerk of each county in
the prosecution district a certified copy of each declaration of candidacy
filed for the office of district attorney.
(3) (a)  Within five working days of nomination, each lieutenant governor
candidate shall:
(i)  file a declaration of candidacy with the lieutenant governor; and
(ii)  pay the filing fee.
(b) (i)  Any candidate for lieutenant governor who fails to file within five
working days is disqualified.
(ii)  If a lieutenant governor is disqualified, another candidate shall be
nominated to replace the disqualified candidate.
(4)  Each registered political party shall:
(a)  certify the names of its candidates for President and Vice President of
the United States to the lieutenant governor no later than September 8; or
(b)  provide written authorization for the lieutenant governor to accept the
certification of candidates for President and Vice President of the United
States from the national office of the registered political party.
(5) (a)  A declaration of candidacy filed under this section is valid unless a
written objection is filed with the clerk or lieutenant governor within five
days after the last day for filing.
(b)  If an objection is made, the clerk or lieutenant governor shall:
(i)  mail or personally deliver notice of the objection to the affected
candidate immediately; and
(ii)  decide any objection within 48 hours after it is filed.
(c)  If the clerk or lieutenant governor sustains the objection, the candidate
may cure the problem by amending the declaration or petition within three days
after the objection is sustained or by filing a new declaration within three
days after the objection is sustained.
(d) (i)  The clerk's or lieutenant governor's decision upon objections to form
is final.
(ii)  The clerk's or lieutenant governor's decision upon substantive matters
is reviewable by a district court if prompt application is made to the court.
(iii)  The decision of the district court is final unless the Supreme Court,
in the exercise of its discretion, agrees to review the lower court decision.
(6)  Any person who filed a declaration of candidacy may withdraw as a
candidate by filing a written affidavit with the clerk.
