17-36-5.   Creation of Citizens and County Officials Advisory Committee.
(1)  For the purpose of this act there is created a Citizens and County
Officials Advisory Committee appointed by the state auditor composed of the
following persons:
(a)  five county auditors elected to that specific and exclusive position;
(b)  five county treasurers elected to that specific and exclusive position;
(c)  two citizens with expertise in the area of local government and the needs
and problems of such government;
(d)  four additional elected county officers, one of whom shall be from the
five largest counties in the state and one of whom shall be from the five
smallest counties in the state; and
(e)  such other members as the auditor considers appropriate.
(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (b), the terms of committee members
shall be four years each.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (a), the state auditor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that
approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.
(3)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(4) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(5)  The advisory committee shall assist, advise, and make recommendations to
the state auditor in the preparation of a uniform system of county budgeting,
accounting, and reporting.
