16-16-207.   Annual report for division.
(1)  A limited cooperative association or foreign cooperative authorized to
transact business in this state shall deliver to the division for filing an
annual report that states:
(a)  the name of the association or foreign cooperative;
(b)  the street address and, if different, mailing address of the
association's or foreign cooperative's designated office and the name of its
agent for service of process at the designated office;
(c)  the street address and, if different, mailing address of the
association's or foreign cooperative's principal office; and
(d)  in the case of a foreign cooperative, the state or other jurisdiction
under whose law the foreign cooperative is formed and any alternative name
adopted under Section 16-16-1405.
(2)  Information in an annual report must be current as of the date the report
is delivered to the division.
(3)  The first annual report must be delivered to the division between January
1 and April 1 of the year following the calendar year in which the limited
cooperative association is formed or the foreign cooperative is authorized to
transact business in this state.  For subsequent years, an annual report must
be delivered to the division during the month in which falls the anniversary
of the limited cooperative association's organization or the foreign
cooperative's authorization to transact business.
(4)  If an annual report does not contain the information required by
Subsection (1), the division shall promptly notify the reporting limited
cooperative association or foreign cooperative and return the report for
correction.  If the report is corrected to contain the information required by
Subsection (1) and delivered to the division not later than 30 days after the
date of the notice from the division, it is timely delivered.
(5)  If a filed annual report contains an address of the designated office,
name of the agent for service of process, or address of the principal office
which differs from the information shown in the records of the division
immediately before the filing, the differing information in the annual report
is considered a statement of change.
(6)  If a limited cooperative association fails to deliver an annual report
under this section, the division may proceed under Section 16-16-1211 to
dissolve the association administratively.
(7)  If a foreign cooperative fails to deliver an annual report under this
section, the division may revoke the certificate of authority of the
cooperative.
