16-16-1004.   Allocations of profits and losses.
(1)  The organic rules may provide for allocating profits of a limited
cooperative association among members, among persons that are not members but
conduct business with the association, to an unallocated account, or to any
combination thereof.  Unless the organic rules otherwise provide, losses of
the association shall be allocated in the same proportion as profits.
(2)  Unless the organic rules otherwise provide, all profits and losses of a
limited cooperative association shall be allocated to patron members.
(3)  If a limited cooperative association has investor members, the organic
rules may not reduce the allocation to patron members to less than 50% of
profits.  For purposes of this Subsection (3), the following rules apply:
(a)  Amounts paid or due on contracts for the delivery to the association by
patron members of products, goods, or services are not considered amounts
allocated to patron members.
(b)  Amounts paid, due, or allocated to investor members as a stated fixed
return on equity are not considered amounts allocated to investor members.
(4)  Unless prohibited by the organic rules, in determining the profits for
allocation under Subsections (1), (2), and (3), the board of directors may
first deduct and set aside a part of the profits to create or accumulate:
(a)  an unallocated capital reserve; and
(b)  reasonable unallocated reserves for specific purposes, including
expansion and replacement of capital assets; education, training, cooperative
development; creation and distribution of information concerning principles of
cooperation; and community responsibility.
(5)  Subject to Subsections (2) and (6) and the organic rules, the board of
directors shall allocate the amount remaining after any deduction or setting
aside of profits for unallocated reserves under Subsection (4):
(a)  to patron members in the ratio of each member's patronage to the total
patronage of all patron members during the period for which allocations are to
be made; and
(b)  to investor members, if any, in the ratio of each investor member's
contributions to the total contributions of all investor members.
(6)  For purposes of allocation of profits and losses or specific items of
profits or losses of a limited cooperative association to members, the organic
rules may establish allocation units or methods based on separate classes of
members or, for patron members, on class, function, division, district,
department, allocation units, pooling arrangements, members' contributions, or
other equitable methods.
