58-73-102.   Definitions.
(1)  "Adjustment of the articulation of the spinal column" means performance
by a chiropractic physician by the use of passive movements directed toward
the goal of restoring joints to their proper physiological relationship of
motion and related function, releasing adhesions, or stimulating joint
receptors using one or more of the following techniques:
(a)  impulse adjusting or the use of sudden, high velocity, short amplitude
thrust of a nature that the patient cannot prevent the motion, commencing
where the motion encounters the elastic barrier of resistance and ends at the
limit of anatomical integrity;
(b)  instrument adjusting, utilizing instruments specifically designed to
deliver sudden, high velocity, short amplitude thrust;
(c)  light force adjusting utilizing sustained joint traction or applied
directional pressure, or both, which may be combined with passive motion to
restore joint mobility; and
(d)  long distance lever adjusting utilizing forces delivered at some distance
from the dysfunctional site and aimed at transmission through connected
structures to accomplish joint mobility.
(2)  "Board" means the Chiropractic Physician Licensing Board created in
Section 58-73-201.
(3)  "Chiropractic assistant" means a person who performs activities related
to the practice of chiropractic under the supervision of a licensed
chiropractic physician in accordance with division rule established in
collaboration with the board.
(4)  "Chiropractic physician" means a person who has been licensed under this
chapter to practice chiropractic.
(5)  "Diagnosis of the articulation of the spinal column" means to examine the
articulations of the spinal column of another human to determine the source,
nature, kind, or extent of a disease, vertebral sublixation, or other physical
condition, and to make a determination of the source, nature, kind, or extent
of a disease or other physical condition.
(6)  "Elastic barrier" means the point at which the patient cannot move a
joint by his own means and through which movement is obtained or caused by a
practitioner's skillful treatment using the practitioner's hands in a
manipulation of a joint by thrust of sudden, high velocity, short amplitude so
the patient cannot prevent the motion.
(7)  "Incisive surgery" means any procedure having the power or quality of
cutting of a patient for the purpose of treating disease, injury, or
deformity, and includes the use of laser.
(8) (a)  "Manipulate the articulation of the spinal column" means use by a
practitioner of a skillful treatment using the practitioner's hands in a
manipulation of a joint by thrust of sudden, high velocity, short amplitude so
the patient cannot prevent the motion.  Movement of the joint is by force
beyond its active limit of motion.
(b)  This manipulation commences where mobilization ends and specifically
begins when the elastic barrier of resistance is encountered and ends at the
limit of anatomical integrity.
(c)  Manipulation as described in this definition is directed to the goal of
restoring joints to their proper physiological relationship of motion and
related function, releasing adhesions, or stimulating joint receptors.
(9)  "Practice of chiropractic" means a practice of a branch of the healing
arts:
(a)  the purpose of which is to restore or maintain human health, in which
patient care or first aid, hygienic, nutritional, or rehabilitative procedures
are administered;
(b)  which places emphasis upon specific vertebral adjustment, manipulation,
and treatment of the articulation and adjacent tissues of the spinal column,
musculoskeletal structure of the body, and nervous system;
(c)  that involves examining, diagnosing, treating, correcting, or prescribing
treatment for any human disease, ailment, injury, infirmity, deformity, pain,
or other condition, or the attempt to do so, in accordance with Section
58-73-601;
(d)  that involves diagnosing, prescribing treatment, or making a
determination of treatment necessity for another person's condition by means
of:
(i)  a physical examination of the person; or
(ii)  a determination based upon or derived from information supplied directly
or indirectly by a third person; and
(e)  the practice described in this Subsection (9) on an animal to the extent
permitted by:
(i)  Subsection 58-28-307(12);
(ii)  the provisions of this chapter; and
(iii)  division rule.
(10)  "Therapeutically position the articulation of the spinal column" means
to adjust or manipulate the articulation of the spinal column.
