63J-6-203.   Redemption fund -- Creation -- Sources -- Use -- Investment --
Income.
(1)  There is created a special fund to be known as the "Tax and Revenue
Anticipation Note Redemption Fund," referred to in this chapter as the
"redemption fund."  When any notes have been issued in anticipation of income
or revenue under this chapter, not less than two days before the principal and
interest on the notes comes due, income or revenue realized from the tax or
nontax sources specified in the approved plan of financing to be anticipated
or from any other source or sources of monies legally available for such
purpose shall be placed in the redemption fund so that the amount in the
redemption fund is sufficient to pay the principal amount of all notes
outstanding, together with interest on them.
(2)  The money in the redemption fund is appropriated solely for the payment
of the principal of and interest on the notes issued under this chapter.  The
payment of the principal and interest on the notes issued under this chapter
is not limited solely to the income and revenues from the specific tax or
nontax sources in anticipation of which the notes were issued.  Accrued
interest received upon the sale of the notes shall be deposited by the state
treasurer in the redemption fund.
(3)  The state treasurer may invest all money in the redemption fund in
accordance with Title 51, Chapter 7, State Money Management Act of 1974,
maturing at a time which will permit payment of the principal of and interest
on the notes in a timely manner when due.  The state treasurer may covenant
with the purchasers of the notes as to the manner of holding money in the
redemption fund, the investment of money in the redemption fund, and the
disposition of any investment income therefrom by retaining investment income
in the redemption fund to be used to pay principal of and interest on notes
when due or by paying the investment income to the state treasurer for deposit
into the General Fund.  If there is sufficient money in the redemption fund to
pay all principal of and interest on all outstanding notes payable therefrom,
all investment income on it shall be paid to the state treasurer for deposit
into the General Fund.
