78A-7-118.   Appeals from justice court -- Trial or hearing de novo in
district court.
(1)  In a criminal case, a defendant is entitled to a trial de novo in the
district court only if the defendant files a notice of appeal within 30 days
of:
(a)  sentencing after a bench or jury trial, or a plea of guilty in the
justice court resulting in a finding or verdict of guilt; or
(b)  a plea of guilty in the justice court that is held in abeyance.
(2)  If an appeal under Subsection (1) is of a plea entered pursuant to
negotiation with the prosecutor, and the defendant did not reserve the right
to appeal as part of the plea negotiation, the negotiation is voided by the
appeal.
(3)  A defendant convicted and sentenced in justice court is entitled to a
hearing de novo in the district court on the following matters, if the
defendant files a notice of appeal within 30 days of:
(a)  an order revoking probation;
(b)  an order entering a judgment of guilt pursuant to the person's failure to
fulfil the terms of a plea in abeyance agreement;
(c)  a sentence entered pursuant to Subsection (3)(b); or
(d)  an order denying a motion to withdraw a plea.
(4)  The prosecutor is entitled to a hearing de novo in the district court on:
(a)  a final judgment of dismissal;
(b)  an order arresting judgment;
(c)  an order terminating the prosecution because of a finding of double
jeopardy or denial of a speedy trial;
(d)  a judgment holding invalid any part of a statute or ordinance;
(e)  a pretrial order excluding evidence, when the prosecutor certifies that
exclusion of that evidence prevents continued prosecution of an infraction or
class C misdemeanor;
(f)  a pretrial order excluding evidence, when the prosecutor certifies that
exclusion of that evidence impairs continued prosecution of a class B
misdemeanor; or
(g)  an order granting a motion to withdraw a plea of guilty or no contest.
(5)  A notice of appeal for a hearing de novo in the district court on a
pretrial order excluding evidence under Subsection (4)(e) or (f) shall be
filed within 30 days of the order excluding the evidence.
(6)  Upon entering a decision in a hearing de novo, the district court shall
remand the case to the justice court unless:
(a)  the decision results in immediate dismissal of the case;
(b)  with agreement of the parties, the district court consents to retain
jurisdiction; or
(c)  the defendant enters a plea of guilty in the district court.
(7)  The district court shall retain jurisdiction over the case on trial de
novo.
(8)  The decision of the district court is final and may not be appealed
unless the district court rules on the constitutionality of a statute or
ordinance.
