11-49-405.   Order to compel -- Enforcement.

(1) (a)  When the subject of a subpoena issued in accordance with Section 11-49-403 disobeys or fails to comply with the subpoena, or if a person appears before the commission pursuant to a subpoena and refuses to testify to a matter upon which the person may be lawfully interrogated, the commission may:

(i)  file a motion for an order to compel obedience to the subpoena with the district court within the jurisdiction of the applicable political subdivision;

(ii)  file, with the district court, a motion for an order to show cause why the penalties established in Title 78B, Chapter 6, Part 3, Contempt, should not be imposed upon the person named in the subpoena for contempt of the commission; or

(iii)  pursue other remedies against persons in contempt of the commission.

(b) (i)  Upon receipt of a motion under this section, the court shall expedite the hearing and decision on the motion.

(ii)  A court may:

(A)  order the person named in the subpoena to comply with the subpoena; and

(B)  impose any penalties authorized by Title 78B, Chapter 6, Part 3, Contempt, upon the person named in the subpoena for contempt of the commission.

(2) (a)  If a commission subpoena requires the production of accounts, books, papers, documents, or other tangible things, the person or entity to whom the subpoena is directed may petition a district court to quash or modify the subpoena at or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance.

(b)  The commission may respond to a motion to quash or modify the subpoena by pursuing any remedy authorized by Subsection (1).

(c)  If the court finds that a commission subpoena requiring the production of accounts, books, papers, documents, or other tangible things is unreasonable or oppressive, the court may quash or modify the subpoena.

(3)  Nothing in this section prevents the commission from seeking an extraordinary writ to remedy contempt of the commission.

(4)  Any party aggrieved by a decision of a court under this section may appeal that action directly to the Utah Supreme Court.



Enacted by Chapter 202, 2012 General Session

