11-49-406.   Testimony and examination of witnesses -- Oath -- Procedure -- Contempt.

(1) (a)  The chair shall ensure that each witness listed in the complaint and response is subpoenaed for appearance at the hearing unless:

(i)  the witness is unable to be properly identified or located; or

(ii)  service is otherwise determined to be impracticable.

(b)  The chair shall determine the scheduling and order of witnesses and presentation of evidence.

(c)  The commission may, by majority vote:

(i)  overrule the chair's decision not to subpoena a witness under Subsection (1)(a);

(ii)  modify the chair's determination on the scheduling and order of witnesses under Subsection (1)(b);

(iii)  decline to hear or call a witness that has been requested by the complainant or respondent;

(iv)  decline to review or consider evidence submitted in relation to an ethics complaint; or

(v)  request and subpoena witnesses or evidence according to the procedures of Section 11-49-403.

(2) (a)  Each witness shall testify under oath.

(b)  The chair or the chair's designee shall administer the oath to each witness.

(3)  After the oath has been administered to the witness, the chair shall direct testimony as follows:

(a)  allow the party that has called the witness, or that party's counsel, to question the witness;

(b)  allow the opposing party, or that party's counsel, to cross-examine the witness;

(c)  allow additional questioning by a party or a party's counsel as appropriate;

(d)  give commission members the opportunity to question the witness; and

(e)  as appropriate, allow further examination of the witness by the commission, or the parties or their counsel.

(4) (a)  If the witness, a party, or a party's counsel objects to a question, the chair shall:

(i)  direct the witness to answer; or

(ii)  rule that the witness is not required to answer the question.

(b)  If the witness declines to answer a question after the chair or a majority of the commission determines that the witness is required to answer the question, the witness may be held in contempt as provided in Section 11-49-404.

(5) (a)  The chair or a majority of the members of the commission may direct a witness to furnish any relevant evidence for consideration if the witness has brought the material voluntarily or has been required to bring it by subpoena.

(b)  If the witness declines to provide evidence in response to a subpoena, the witness may be held in contempt as provided in Section 11-49-404.



Enacted by Chapter 202, 2012 General Session

