11-49-701.   Commission review of ethics violation.

(1)  The scope of a review by the commission is limited to an alleged ethics violation stated in a complaint that has not been previously dismissed under Section 11-49-602.

(2) (a)  Before holding the meeting for review of the complaint, the commission chair may schedule a separate meeting of the commission for the purposes of:

(i)  hearing motions or arguments from the parties, including hearing motions or arguments relating to dismissal of a complaint, admission of evidence, or procedures;

(ii)  holding a vote of the commission, with or without the attendance of the parties, on procedural or commission business matters relating to a complaint; or

(iii)  reviewing a complaint, with or without the attendance of the parties, to determine if the complaint should be dismissed in whole or in part, by means of a majority vote of the commission, because the complaint pleads facts or circumstances against a political subdivision officer or employee that have already been reviewed by, as provided in Section 11-49-301, the commission, a municipal ethics commission established in accordance with Section 10-3-1311, a county ethics commission established in accordance with Section 17-16a-11, or a local political subdivision ethics commission established in accordance with Section 11-49-103.

(b)  Notwithstanding Section 11-49-603, the commission may, by a majority vote, change the date of the meeting for review of the complaint in order to accommodate:

(i)  a meeting authorized under Subsection (2)(a); or

(ii)  necessary scheduling requirements.

(3) (a)  The commission shall comply with the Utah Rules of Evidence except where the commission determines, by majority vote, that a rule is not compatible with the requirements of this chapter.

(b)  The chair shall make rulings on admissibility of evidence consistent with the provisions of Section 11-49-402.

(4) (a)  A meeting or hearing authorized in this part is open to the public except as provided in Section 52-4-204.

(b)  The following individuals may be present during the presentation of testimony and evidence to the commission:

(i)  the complainant;

(ii)  the complainant's counsel, if applicable;

(iii)  the respondent;

(iv)  the respondent's counsel, if applicable;

(v)  members of the commission;

(vi)  staff to the commission;

(vii)  a witness, while testifying before the commission; and

(viii)  necessary security personnel.

(c)  The commission may, in accordance with Section 52-4-204, close a meeting to:

(i)  seek or obtain legal advice on legal, evidentiary, or procedural matters; or

(ii)  conduct deliberations to reach a decision on the complaint.

(5)  If a majority of the commission determines that a continuance is necessary to obtain further evidence and testimony, to accommodate administrative needs, or to accommodate the attendance of commission members, witnesses, or a party, the commission shall:

(a)  adjourn and continue the meeting to a future date and time after notice to the parties; and

(b)  establish that future date and time by majority vote.

(6)  A record, as defined in Section 63G-2-103, created by the commission under this part, reviewed by the commission under this part, or received by the commission under this part, is a public record, as defined in Section 63G-2-103.



Enacted by Chapter 202, 2012 General Session

