11-49-703.   Commission deliberations -- Standard of proof.

(1)  After each party has presented a closing argument, the commission shall, at the direction of the chair, begin its deliberations:

(a)  immediately after conclusion of the closing arguments; or

(b)  at a future meeting of the commission, on a date and time determined by a majority of the members of the commission.

(2) (a)  The chair of the commission shall conduct the deliberations.

(b)  Upon a motion made by a commission member, the commission may:

(i)  exclude commission staff from all or a portion of the deliberations by a majority vote of the commission; or

(ii)  close the meeting in accordance with Section 52-4-204.

(3) (a)  During deliberations, for each allegation reviewed by the commission, each member shall determine and cast a vote stating:

(i)  whether the allegation is:

(A)  proven by clear and convincing evidence; or

(B)  not proven; and

(ii)  for each allegation proven, whether the commission would recommend to the appropriate political subdivision governing body to take one or more of the following actions:

(A)  censure;

(B)  in the case of a political subdivision employee, termination;

(C)  in the case of a political subdivision officer, removal from office; or

(D)  any other action or reprimand that the commission determines is appropriate.

(b) (i)  A verbal roll call vote shall be taken on each allegation, and each recommended action described in Subsection (3)(a)(ii) on each allegation.

(ii)  Each member's vote shall be recorded.

(4) (a)  An allegation is not considered to be proven unless six of the seven members of the commission vote that the allegation is proven.

(b)  An allegation that is not considered to be proven is dismissed.

(c) (i)  Before the commission issues its recommendation in accordance with Section 11-49-704, the commission may, upon a majority vote, reconsider and hold a new vote on an allegation.

(ii)  A motion to reconsider a vote may only be made by a member of the commission who voted that the allegation was not proved.

(5)  At the conclusion of deliberations, the commission shall prepare its recommendations as provided in Sections 11-49-704 and 11-49-705.



Enacted by Chapter 202, 2012 General Session

