53A-1-402.7.   Mathematics curriculum and materials development program.

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  "Board" means the State Board of Education.

(b)  "Local education agency" means a school district, charter school, or the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the Blind.

(2)  The board shall develop and produce a new low cost, highly-interactive, print and online mathematics textbook, for students in grades 7 and 8, that will meet the new Utah common core standards.

(3)  On or before May 15, the board shall contract with:

(a)  a content developer, selected through a request for proposals process, to assist the board in the development of the new mathematics textbooks; and

(b)  a publisher, selected through a request for proposals process, to produce and publish the mathematics textbooks, including online materials, consistent with Utah's common core mathematics curricula developed in Subsection (2).

(4)  The content developer shall:

(a)  be an institution of higher education within Utah;

(b)  provide content development through a principal investigator who:

(i)  is employed by the higher education institution; and

(ii)  has a postgraduate doctorate degree in mathematics;

(c)  include the following individuals in content development:

(i)  mathematicians employed by at least one higher education institution within the state, recommended by the board; and

(ii)  expert mathematics teachers from public schools within the state, recommended by the board; and

(d)  provide an adaptive performance assessment program to measure the effectiveness of the new mathematics textbooks.

(5)  The publisher shall:

(a)  administer and maintain the adaptive performance assessment program developed by the content developer as required in Subsection (4)(d);

(b)  have a license to sell a mathematics textbook developed under this section, to a person outside of Utah;

(c)  pay 50% of the net proceeds from a sale under Subsection (5)(b) as a royalty to the State of Utah to be deposited in the Education Fund; and

(d)  provide ongoing updates of a mathematics textbook developed under this section, under the direction of the board.

(6) (a)  When selecting a publisher as required in Subsection (3)(b), the board may not select a publisher with a competing interest or competing product.

(b)  A publisher selected by the board may not produce or sell a competing product to the mathematics textbook developed under this section.

(7)  The publisher may not sell products or engage in business that conflicts with the royalty interests of the state pursuant to the mathematics textbooks development program under this section.

(8)  The board shall ensure that the mathematics textbooks:

(a)  meet Utah's common core mathematics standards adopted by the board;

(b)  are developed by the content developer;

(c)  are owned and controlled by the board; and

(d)  are produced and ready for distribution to local education agencies for students in grades 7 and 8, on or before the 2013-14 school year;

(e)  are made available online for direct download;

(f)  are made available to the board or a local education agency at a cost of no more than $3.00 per textbook, including the cost of delivery to a local education agency;

(g)  include direct links to supplemental online instructional materials accessible by a mobile device; and

(h)  the content of the curriculum is substantially contained in the textbook.

(9)  The board may set additional specifications as it deems necessary.

