53A-1-402.   Board to establish minimum standards for public schools.

(1)  The State Board of Education shall establish rules and minimum standards for the public schools that are consistent with this title, including rules and minimum standards governing the following:

(a) (i)  the qualification and certification of educators and ancillary personnel who provide direct student services;

(ii)  required school administrative and supervisory services; and

(iii)  the evaluation of instructional personnel;

(b) (i)  access to programs;

(ii)  attendance;

(iii)  competency levels;

(iv)  graduation requirements; and

(v)  discipline and control;

(c) (i)  school accreditation;

(ii)  the academic year;

(iii)  alternative and pilot programs;

(iv)  curriculum and instruction requirements;

(v)  school libraries; and

(vi)  services to:

(A)  persons with a disability as defined by and covered under:

(I)  the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 12102;

(II)  the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 705(20)(A); and

(III)  the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. 1401(3); and

(B)  other special groups;

(d) (i)  state reimbursed bus routes;

(ii)  bus safety and operational requirements; and

(iii)  other transportation needs; and

(e) (i)  school productivity and cost effectiveness measures;

(ii)  federal programs;

(iii)  school budget formats; and

(iv)  financial, statistical, and student accounting requirements.

(2)  The board shall determine if:

(a)  the minimum standards have been met; and

(b)  required reports are properly submitted.

(3)  The board may apply for, receive, administer, and distribute to eligible applicants funds made available through programs of the federal government.

(4) (a)  The Utah College of Applied Technology shall provide competency-based career and technical education courses that fulfill high school graduation requirements, as requested and authorized by the State Board of Education.

(b)  A school district may grant a high school diploma to a student participating in courses described under Subsection (4)(a) that are provided by the Utah College of Applied Technology.



Amended by Chapter 227, 2005 General Session

