53A-1-611.   Standards and assessment processes to measure student
performance -- Basic skills competency test.
(1)  The Legislature recognizes the need for the State Board of Education to
develop and implement standards and assessment processes to ensure that
student progress is measured and that school boards and school personnel are
accountable.
(2) (a)  In addition to its responsibilities under Sections 53A-1-603 through
53A-1-605, the State Board of Education, through the state superintendent of
public instruction, shall design a basic skills competency test to be
administered in the tenth grade.
(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (5) and Section 53A-11-1404, a student
must pass the basic skills competency test, in addition to the established
requirements of the state and local board of education of the district in
which the student attends school, in order to receive a basic high school
diploma of graduation.
(c)  The state board shall include in the test, at a minimum, components on
English language arts and reading and mathematics.
(d)  Except as provided in Subsection (5) and Section 53A-11-1404, a student
who fails to pass all components of the test may not receive a basic high
school diploma but may receive a certificate of completion or alternative
completion diploma under rules made by the State Board of Education in
accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act.
(e)  The state board shall make rules:
(i)  to allow students who initially fail the test to retake all or part of
the test; and
(ii) that take into account and are consistent with federal law relating to
students with disabilities in the administration of the test.
(3)  The state board shall implement the tenth grade basic skills competency
test, no later than the beginning of the 2003-04 school year.
(4)  The requirements of this section are to be complementary to the other
achievement testing provisions of this part.
(5)  A student enrolled in a school district or charter school that is exempt
from administering the tenth grade basic skills competency test is subject to
high school graduation standards adopted by the State Board of Education
pursuant to Section 53A-1-603.
