53A-1-1107.   Calculation of points earned for students demonstrating sufficient growth in language arts, mathematics, and science.

(1)  A school shall receive points for a school's students demonstrating sufficient growth in language arts, mathematics, science, and writing as follows:

(a)  A school shall receive 0.5 points for each percentage of the school's students who take a statewide assessment of language arts achievement and make sufficient growth.

(b)  A school shall receive 0.5 points for each percentage of the school's students who take a statewide assessment of mathematics achievement and make sufficient growth.

(c)  A school shall receive 0.5 points for each percentage of the school's students who take a statewide assessment of science achievement and make sufficient growth.

(2)  A school shall receive points for a school's students who scored below the proficient level on statewide achievement tests in the prior year and who demonstrate sufficient growth in language arts, mathematics, and science as follows:

(a)  A school shall receive 0.5 points for each percentage of the school's nonproficient students, as determined by prior year language arts test scores, who take a statewide assessment of language arts achievement and make sufficient growth.

(b)  A school shall receive 0.5 points for each percentage of the school's nonproficient students, as determined by prior year mathematics test scores, who take a statewide assessment of mathematics achievement and make sufficient growth.

(c)  A school shall receive 0.5 points for each percentage of the school's nonproficient students, as determined by prior year science test scores, who take a statewide assessment of science achievement and make sufficient growth.

(3)  A school may earn a maximum of 50 points for each of the criteria listed in Subsections (1)(a), (b), and (c) and (2)(a), (b), and (c).

(4)  The State Board of Education shall:

(a)  model the school grading system based on awarding points as described in Subsection (2) for students in the lowest quartile, as determined by prior year test scores, who make sufficient growth; and

(b)  submit a report on the model results to the Education Interim Committee no later than the committee's November 2013 meeting.



Repealed and Re-enacted by Chapter 478, 2013 General Session

