10-2-402.   Annexation -- Limitations.

(1) (a)  A contiguous, unincorporated area that is contiguous to a municipality may be annexed to the municipality as provided in this part.

(b)  An unincorporated area may not be annexed to a municipality unless:

(i)  it is a contiguous area;

(ii)  it is contiguous to the municipality;

(iii)  except as provided in Subsection 10-2-418(1)(b), annexation will not leave or create an unincorporated island or unincorporated peninsula; and

(iv)  for an area located in a specified county with respect to an annexation that occurs after December 31, 2002, the area is within the proposed annexing municipality's expansion area.

(2)  Except as provided in Section 10-2-418, a municipality may not annex an unincorporated area unless a petition under Section 10-2-403 is filed requesting annexation.

(3) (a)  An annexation under this part may not include part of a parcel of real property and exclude part of that same parcel unless the owner of that parcel has signed the annexation petition under Section 10-2-403.

(b)  A piece of real property that has more than one parcel number is considered to be a single parcel for purposes of Subsection (3)(a) if owned by the same owner.

(4)  A municipality may not annex an unincorporated area in a specified county for the sole purpose of acquiring municipal revenue or to retard the capacity of another municipality to annex the same or a related area unless the municipality has the ability and intent to benefit the annexed area by providing municipal services to the annexed area.

(5)  The legislative body of a specified county may not approve urban development within a municipality's expansion area unless:

(a)  the county notifies the municipality of the proposed development; and

(b) (i)  the municipality consents in writing to the development; or

(ii) (A)  within 90 days after the county's notification of the proposed development, the municipality submits to the county a written objection to the county's approval of the proposed development; and

(B)  the county responds in writing to the municipality's objections.

(6) (a)  An annexation petition may not be filed under this part proposing the annexation of an area located in a county that is not the county in which the proposed annexing municipality is located unless the legislative body of the county in which the area is located has adopted a resolution approving the proposed annexation.

(b)  Each county legislative body that declines to adopt a resolution approving a proposed annexation described in Subsection (6)(a) shall provide a written explanation of its reasons for declining to approve the proposed annexation.

(7) (a)  As used in this Subsection (7), "airport" means an area that the Federal Aviation Administration has, by a record of decision, approved for the construction or operation of a Class I, II, or III commercial service airport, as designated by the Federal Aviation Administration in 14 C.F.R. Part 139.

(b)  A municipality may not annex an unincorporated area within 5,000 feet of the center line of any runway of an airport operated or to be constructed and operated by another municipality unless the legislative body of the other municipality adopts a resolution consenting to the annexation.

(c)  A municipality that operates or intends to construct and operate an airport and does not adopt a resolution consenting to the annexation of an area described in Subsection (7)(b) may not deny an annexation petition proposing the annexation of that same area to that municipality.

(8)  An annexation petition may not be filed if it proposes the annexation of an area that is within a proposed township in a petition to establish a township under Subsection 17-27a-306(1)(c) that has been certified under Subsection 17-27a-306(1)(f), until after the canvass of an election on the proposed township under Subsection 17-27a-306(1)(h).

(9) (a)  A municipality may not annex an unincorporated area located within a project area described in a project area plan adopted by the military installation development authority under Title 63H, Chapter 1, Military Installation Development Authority Act, without the authority's approval.

(b) (i)  Except as provided in Subsection (9)(b)(ii), the Military Installation Development Authority may petition for annexation of a project area and contiguous surrounding land to a municipality as if it was the sole private property owner of the project area and surrounding land, if the area to be annexed is entirely contained within the boundaries of a military installation.

(ii)  Before petitioning for annexation under Subsection (9)(b)(i), the Military Installation Development Authority shall provide the military installation with a copy of the petition for annexation.  The military installation may object to the petition for annexation within 14 days of receipt of the copy of the annexation petition.  If the military installation objects under this Subsection (9)(b)(ii), the Military Installation Development Authority may not petition for the annexation as if it was the sole private property owner.

(iii)  If any portion of an area annexed under a petition for annexation filed by a Military Installation Development Authority is located in a specified county:

(A)  the annexation process shall follow the requirements for a specified county; and

(B)  the provisions of Subsection 10-2-402(6) do not apply.



Amended by Chapter 234, 2011 General Session

