10-2-408.5.   Annexation of an area within a township -- Withdrawing the
area from the township.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Affected township" means a township some or all of which is proposed to
be annexed to a municipality through an intra-township annexation.
(b)  "Committee" means a committee appointed under Subsection (5)(a).
(c)  "County legislative body" means the legislative body of the county in
which an affected township is located.
(d)  "Intra-township annexation" means an annexation of an area that is partly
or entirely within a township.
(e)  "Municipal legislative body" means the legislative body of the
municipality to which an area within an affected township is proposed to be
annexed through an intra-township annexation.
(f)  "Township withdrawal" means:
(i)  for an intra-township annexation that proposes the annexation of part of
the township, the withdrawal of that area from the township; or
(ii)  for an intra-township annexation that proposes the annexation of the
entire township, the dissolution of the township.
(2)  An intra-township annexation requires:
(a)  the municipal legislative body's approval of the annexation, as provided
in this part; and
(b)  the approval of the township withdrawal by:
(i)  the county legislative body; or
(ii)  the committee as provided in Subsection (5), if the county legislative
body does not approve the township withdrawal.
(3) (a)  No later than 30 days after receiving notice under Subsection
10-2-407(3)(b)(iii) or 10-2-408(2) of the municipal legislative body's
approval of a proposed intra-township annexation, the county legislative body
shall hold a public hearing on the proposed township withdrawal that meets the
requirements of Subsection 17-27a-306(3)(f)(ii).
(b)  Before holding a public hearing under Subsection (3)(a), the county
legislative body shall provide notice that meets the requirements of
Subsection 17-27a-306(3)(f)(iii).
(c) (i)  A public hearing required under Subsection (3)(a) may be combined
with:
(A)  the public hearing required under Subsection 10-2-407(3)(b)(ii), with the
municipal legislative body's approval; or
(B)  the public hearing required under Section 10-2-415, with the boundary
commission's approval.
(ii)  If public hearings are combined under Subsection (3)(c)(i), notice of
the combined public hearing shall be given as provided in Subsection (3)(b).
(4) (a)  No later than 60 days after receiving notice under Subsection
10-2-407(3)(b)(iii) or 10-2-408(2) of the municipal legislative body's
approval of a proposed intra-township annexation, the county legislative body
shall make and issue a written decision approving or disapproving the township
withdrawal.
(b)  In making its decision under Subsection (4)(a), the county legislative
body shall, as applicable, consider the factors listed in Subsection
17-27a-306(3)(g)(ii).
(5) (a) (i)  If the county legislative body, in its written decision under
Subsection (4)(a), disapproves the township withdrawal, a committee shall be
appointed consisting of:
(A)  one elected official, other than a member of the municipal legislative
body or the municipality's mayor, appointed by the municipal legislative body;
(B)  one elected official, other than a member of the county legislative body
or the county executive, appointed by the county legislative body; and
(C)  one person who is:
(I)  an elected official;
(II)  a resident of the county in which the township is located; and
(III)  appointed by the two committee members specified in Subsections
(5)(a)(i)(A) and (B).
(ii) (A)  The municipal legislative body and county legislative body shall
each appoint its respective appointee within ten business days after the
county legislative body issues its written decision under Subsection (4)(a).
(B)  The committee members under Subsections (5)(a)(i)(A) and (B) shall,
within 20 days after their appointment, appoint the remaining member.
(b)  Committee members shall serve without compensation.
(c)  At the committee's request, the county shall provide the committee with
necessary staff assistance.
(d)  The committee may, in its discretion and with reasonable advance public
notice, hold one or more public hearings on the proposed township withdrawal.
(e)  In making its decision to approve or disapprove the township withdrawal,
the committee may consider the issue of township withdrawal anew without:
(i)  considering the proceedings before the county legislative body; or
(ii)  giving the county legislative body's decision any deference.
(f)  Within 45 days after the appointment of the committee member under
Subsection (5)(a)(i)(C), the committee shall make and issue a written decision
approving or disapproving the township withdrawal.
(6)  The municipal legislative body may adopt an ordinance approving the
intra-township annexation if:
(a)  the county legislative body, in its written decision under Subsection
(4)(a), approves the township withdrawal; or
(b)  the committee, in its written decision under Subsection (5)(e), approves
the township withdrawal.
