10-2-414.   Modified annexation petition -- Supplemental feasibility study.
(1) (a) (i)  If the results of the feasibility study with respect to a
proposed annexation of an area located in a county of the first class do not
meet the requirements of Subsection 10-2-416(3), the sponsors of the
annexation petition may, within 45 days of the feasibility consultant's
submission of the results of the study, file with the city recorder or town
clerk of the proposed annexing municipality a modified annexation petition
altering the boundaries of the proposed annexation.
(ii)  On the date of filing a modified annexation petition under Subsection
(1)(a)(i), the sponsors of the annexation petition shall deliver or mail a
copy of the modified annexation petition to the clerk of the county in which
the area proposed for annexation is located.
(b)  Each modified annexation petition under Subsection (1)(a) shall comply
with the requirements of Subsections 10-2-403(3), (4), and (5).
(2) (a)  Within 20 days of the city recorder or town clerk's receipt of the
modified annexation petition, the city recorder or town clerk, as the case may
be, shall follow the same procedure for the modified annexation petition as
provided under Subsections 10-2-405(2) and (3)(a) for an original annexation
petition.
(b)  If the city recorder or town clerk certifies the modified annexation
petition under Subsection 10-2-405(2)(c)(i), the city recorder or town clerk,
as the case may be, shall send written notice of the certification to:
(i)  the commission;
(ii)  each entity that filed a protest to the annexation petition; and
(iii)  if a protest was filed under Subsection 10-2-407(1)(a)(ii), the contact
person.
(c) (i)  If the modified annexation petition proposes the annexation of an
area that includes part or all of a local district, special service district,
or school district that was not included in the area proposed for annexation
in the original petition, the city recorder or town clerk, as the case may be,
shall also send notice of the certification of the modified annexation
petition to the board of the local district, special service district, or
school district.
(ii)  If the area proposed for annexation in the modified annexation petition
is within 1/2 mile of the boundaries of a municipality whose boundaries were
not within 1/2 mile of the area proposed for annexation in the original
annexation petition, the city recorder or town clerk, as the case may be,
shall also send notice of the certification of the modified annexation
petition to the legislative body of that municipality.
(3)  Within ten days of the commission's receipt of the notice under
Subsection (2)(b), the commission shall engage the feasibility consultant that
conducted the feasibility study to supplement the feasibility study to take
into account the information in the modified annexation petition that was not
included in the original annexation petition.
(4)  The commission shall require the feasibility consultant to complete the
supplemental feasibility study and to submit written results of the
supplemental study to the commission no later than 30 days after the
feasibility consultant is engaged to conduct the supplemental feasibility
study.
