78B-12-113.   Enforcement of right of support.

(1) (a)  The obligee may enforce his right of support against the obligor.  The office may proceed pursuant to this chapter or any other applicable statute on behalf of:

(i)  the Department of Human Services;

(ii)  any other department or agency of this state that provides public assistance, as defined by Subsection 62A-11-303(3), to enforce the right to recover public assistance; or

(iii)  the obligee, to enforce the obligee's right of support against the obligor.

(b)  Whenever any court action is commenced by the office to enforce payment of the obligor's support obligation, the attorney general or the county attorney of the county of residence of the obligee shall represent the office.

(2) (a)  A person may not commence an action, file a pleading, or submit a written stipulation to the court, without complying with Subsection (2)(b), if the purpose or effect of the action, pleading, or stipulation is to:

(i)  establish paternity;

(ii)  establish or modify a support obligation;

(iii)  change the court-ordered manner of payment of support;

(iv)  recover support due or owing; or

(v)  appeal issues regarding child support laws.

(b) (i)  When taking an action described in Subsection (2)(a), a person must file an affidavit with the court at the time the action is commenced, the pleading is filed, or the stipulation is submitted stating whether child support services have been or are being provided under Part IV of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C., Section 601 et seq., on behalf of a child who is a subject of the action, pleading, or stipulation.

(ii)  If child support services have been or are being provided, under Part IV of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C., Section 601 et seq., the person shall mail a copy of the affidavit and a copy of the pleading or stipulation to the Office of the Attorney General, Child Support Division.

(iii)  If notice is not given in accordance with this Subsection (2), the office is not bound by any decision, judgment, agreement, or compromise rendered in the action.  For purposes of appeals, service must be made on the Office of the Director for the Office of Recovery Services.

(c)  If IV-D services have been or are being provided, that person shall join the office as a party to the action, or mail or deliver a written request to the Office of the Attorney General, Child Support Division asking the office to join as a party to the action.  A copy of that request, along with proof of service, shall be filed with the court.  The office shall be represented as provided in Subsection (1)(b).

(3)  Neither the attorney general nor the county attorney represents or has an attorney-client relationship with the obligee or the obligor in carrying out the duties under this chapter.

