78B-12-212.   Medical expenses.
(1) (a)  The court shall order that insurance for the medical expenses of the
minor children be provided by a parent if it is available at a reasonable
cost.
(b)  The court shall, in accordance with Section 30-3-5, designate which
health, hospital, or dental insurance plan is primary and which health,
hospital, or dental insurance plan is secondary if at any time a dependent
child is covered by both parents' health, hospital, or dental insurance plans.
(2)  In determining which parent shall be ordered to maintain insurance for
medical expenses, the court or administrative agency may consider the:
(a)  reasonableness of the cost;
(b)  availability of a group insurance policy;
(c)  coverage of the policy; and
(d)  preference of the custodial parent.
(3)  The order shall require each parent to share equally the out-of-pocket
costs of the premium actually paid by a parent for the children's portion of
insurance unless the court finds good cause to order otherwise.
(4)  The parent who provides the insurance coverage may receive credit against
the base child support award or recover the other parent's share of the
children's portion of the premium.  In cases in which the parent does not have
insurance but another member of the parent's household provides insurance
coverage for the children, the parent may receive credit against the base
child support award or recover the other parent's share of the children's
portion of the premium.
(5)  The children's portion of the premium is a per capita share of the
premium actually paid.  The premium expense for the children shall be
calculated by dividing the premium amount by the number of persons covered
under the policy and multiplying the result by the number of children in the
instant case.
(6)  The order shall, in accordance with Subsection 30-3-5(1)(b), include a
cash medical support provision that requires each parent to equally share all
reasonable and necessary uninsured and unreimbursed medical and dental
expenses incurred for the dependent children, including but not limited to
deductibles and copayments unless the court finds good cause to order
otherwise.
(7)  The parent ordered to maintain insurance shall provide verification of
coverage to the other parent, or to the Office of Recovery Services under
Title IV of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 601 et seq., upon
initial enrollment of the dependent children, and thereafter on or before
January 2 of each calendar year.  The parent shall notify the other parent, or
the Office of Recovery Services under Title IV of the Social Security Act, 42
U.S.C. Section 601 et seq., of any change of insurance carrier, premium, or
benefits within 30 calendar days of the date the parent first knew or should
have known of the change.
(8)  A parent who incurs medical expenses shall provide written verification
of the cost and payment of medical expenses to the other parent within 30 days
of payment.
(9)  In addition to any other sanctions provided by the court, a parent
incurring medical expenses may be denied the right to receive credit for the
expenses or to recover the other parent's share of the expenses if that parent
fails to comply with Subsections (7) and (8).
