73-29-103.   Declarations.
The Legislature declares:
(1)  the Utah Constitution's specific private property protections, including
recognition of the inalienable right to acquire, possess, and protect property
and the prohibition on taking or damaging private property for public use
without just compensation, protect against government's broad recognition or
grant of a public recreation easement to access or use public water on private
property;
(2)  general constitutional and statutory provisions declaring public
ownership of water and recognizing existing rights of use are insufficient to
overcome the specific constitutional protections for private property and do
not justify inviting widespread unauthorized invasion of private property for
recreation purposes where public access has never existed or has not existed
for a sufficient period and under the conditions required to support
recognition under this chapter;
(3)  whether, or to what extent, a public easement exists for recreational use
of public waters on private property is uncertain after judicial decisions in
the cases of J.J.N.P. Co. v. State, 655 P.2d 1133 (Utah 1982) and Conatser v.
Johnson, 194 P.3d 897 (Utah 2008), which decisions did not address the
constitutional prohibition on taking or damaging private property without just
compensation;
(4)  legislative failure to provide guidance before, coupled with legislative
inaction after the 1982 decision in J.J.N.P. Co. v. State form a compelling
foundation for the Legislature to affirm a limited right to float on the water
without violating the constitutional protections of the underlying private
property;
(5)  the real and substantial invasion of private property rights did not
occur with recognition of the right to float on water that passes over the
land, but with the right, first recognized in Conatser v. Johnson, to
physically occupy the land for an indeterminate time and for a wide range of
activities by the public against the owner's will and without just
compensation;
(6)  its intent to foster restoration of the accommodation existing between
recreational users and private property owners before the decision in Conatser
v. Johnson, affirm a floating right recognized by the court in J.J.N.P. Co. v.
State, and recognize adverse use as a constitutionally sound and manageable
basis for establishing a limited right of public recreational access on
private property in accordance with this chapter.
