62A-1-107.   Boards within department -- Members, appointment, terms, vacancies, chairperson, compensation, meetings, quorum.

(1)  Each board described in Section 62A-1-105 shall have seven members who are appointed by the governor with the consent of the Senate.

(2) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(b), each member shall be appointed for a term of four years, and is eligible for one reappointment.

(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(a), the governor shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately half of the board is appointed every two years.

(c)  Board members shall continue in office until the expiration of their terms and until their successors are appointed, which may not exceed 90 days after the formal expiration of a term.

(d)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.

(3)  No more than four members of any board may be from the same political party.  Each board shall have diversity of gender, ethnicity, and culture; and members shall be chosen on the basis of their active interest, experience, and demonstrated ability to deal with issues related to their specific boards.

(4)  Each board shall annually elect a chairperson from its membership.  Each board shall hold meetings at least once every three months.  Within budgetary constraints, meetings may be held from time to time on the call of the chairperson or of the majority of the members of any board.  Four members of a board are necessary to constitute a quorum at any meeting, and, if a quorum exists, the action of the majority of members present shall be the action of the board.

(5)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's service, but, at the executive director's discretion, may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:

(a)  Section 63A-3-106;

(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and

(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.

(6)  Each board shall adopt bylaws governing its activities.  Bylaws shall include procedures for removal of a board member who is unable or unwilling to fulfill the requirements of his appointment.

(7)  The board has program policymaking authority for the division over which it presides.



Amended by Chapter 286, 2010 General Session

