78B-2-308.   Civil actions for sexual abuse of a child.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Child" means a person under 18 years of age.
(b)  "Discovery" means when a person knows or reasonably should know that the
injury or illness was caused by the intentional or negligent sexual abuse.
(c)  "Injury or illness" means either a physical injury or illness or a
psychological injury or illness.  A psychological injury or illness need not
be accompanied by physical injury or illness.
(d)  "Molestation" means touching the anus, buttocks, or genitalia of any
child, the breast of a female child younger than 14 years of age, or otherwise
taking indecent liberties with a child, or causing a child to take indecent
liberties with the perpetrator or another, with the intent to arouse or
gratify the sexual desire of any person.
(e)  "Negligently" means a failure to act to prevent the child sexual abuse
from further occurring or to report the child sexual abuse to law enforcement
when the adult who could act knows or reasonably should know of the child
sexual abuse and is the victim's parent, stepparent, adoptive parent, foster
parent, legal guardian, ancestor, descendant, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
first cousin, nephew, niece, grandparent, stepgrandparent, or any person
cohabiting in the child's home.
(f)  "Person" means an individual who was intentionally or negligently
sexually abused.  It does not include individuals whose claims are derived
through another individual who was sexually abused.
(g)  "Sexual abuse" means acts or attempted acts of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, or molestation directed towards a child.
(2)  A person shall file a civil action for intentional or negligent sexual
abuse suffered as a child:
(a)  within four years after the person attains the age of 18 years; or
(b)  if a person discovers sexual abuse only after attaining the age of 18
years, that person may bring a civil action for such sexual abuse within four
years after discovery of the sexual abuse, whichever period expires later.
(3)  The victim need not establish which act in a series of continuing sexual
abuse incidents caused the injury complained of, but may compute the date of
discovery from the date of discovery of the last act by the same perpetrator
which is part of a common scheme or plan of sexual abuse.
(4)  The knowledge of a custodial parent or guardian may not be imputed to a
person under the age of 18 years.
(5)  A civil action may be brought only against a living person who
intentionally perpetrated the sexual abuse or negligently permitted the sexual
abuse to occur.
