79-4-404.   Zion National Park Support Programs Restricted Account -- Creation -- Funding -- Distribution of funds.

(1)  There is created within the General Fund the Zion National Park Support Programs Restricted Account.

(2)  The account shall be funded by:

(a)  contributions deposited into the account in accordance with Section 41-1a-422;

(b)  private contributions; or

(c)  donations or grants from public or private entities.

(3)  The Legislature shall appropriate funds in the account to the division.

(4)  The board may expend up to 10% of the money appropriated under Subsection (3) to administer account distributions in accordance with Subsections (5) and (6).

(5)  The division shall distribute contributions to one or more organizations that:

(a)  are exempt from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3), Internal Revenue Code;

(b)  operate under a written agreement with the National Park Service to provide interpretive, educational, and research activities for the benefit of Zion National Park;

(c)  produce and distribute educational and promotional materials on Zion National Park;

(d)  conduct educational courses on the history and ecosystem of the greater Zion Canyon area; and

(e)  provide other programs that enhance visitor appreciation and enjoyment of Zion National Park.

(6) (a)  An organization described in Subsection (5) may apply to the division to receive a distribution in accordance with Subsection (5).

(b)  An organization that receives a distribution from the division in accordance with Subsection (5) shall expend the distribution only to:

(i)  produce and distribute educational and promotional materials on Zion National Park;

(ii)  conduct educational courses on the history and ecosystem of the greater Zion Canyon area; and

(iii)  provide other programs that enhance visitor appreciation and enjoyment of Zion National Park.

(c)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the division may make rules providing procedures and requirements for an organization to apply to the division to receive a distribution under Subsection (5).



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 344, 2009 General Session

