75-5-312.   General powers and duties of guardian -- Penalties.
(1)  A guardian of an incapacitated person has only the powers, rights, and
duties respecting the ward granted in the order of appointment under Section
75-5-304.
(2)  Absent a specific limitation on the guardian's power in the order of
appointment, the guardian has the same powers, rights, and duties respecting
the ward that a parent has respecting the parent's unemancipated minor child
except that a guardian is not liable to third persons for acts of the ward
solely by reason of the parental relationship.  In particular, and without
qualifying the foregoing, a guardian has the following powers and duties,
except as modified by order of the court:
(a)  To the extent that it is consistent with the terms of any order by a
court of competent jurisdiction relating to detention or commitment of the
ward, the guardian is entitled to custody of the person of the ward and may
establish the ward's place of abode within or without this state.
(b)  If entitled to custody of the ward the guardian shall provide for the
care, comfort, and maintenance of the ward and, whenever appropriate, arrange
for the ward's training and education.  Without regard to custodial rights of
the ward's person, the guardian shall take reasonable care of the ward's
clothing, furniture, vehicles, and other personal effects and commence
protective proceedings if other property of the ward is in need of protection.
(c)  A guardian may give any consents or approvals that may be necessary to
enable the ward to receive medical or other professional care, counsel,
treatment, or service.
(d)  If no conservator for the estate of the ward has been appointed, the
guardian may:
(i)  institute proceedings to compel any person under a duty to support the
ward or to pay sums for the welfare of the ward to perform that duty; or
(ii)  receive money and tangible property deliverable to the ward and apply
the money and property for support, care, and education of the ward; but the
guardian may not use funds from the ward's estate for room and board which the
guardian, the guardian's spouse, parent, or child have furnished the ward
unless a charge for the service is approved by order of the court made upon
notice to at least one adult relative in the nearest degree of kinship to the
ward in which there is an adult.  The guardian must exercise care to conserve
any excess for the ward's needs.
(e) (i)  A guardian is required to report the condition of the ward and of the
estate which has been subject to the guardian's possession or control, as
required by the court or court rule.
(ii)  The guardian shall, for all estates in excess of $50,000, excluding the
residence owned by the ward, send a report with a full accounting to the court
on an annual basis. For estates less than $50,000, excluding the residence
owned by the ward, the guardian shall fill out an informal annual report and
mail the report to the court.  The report shall include the following: a
statement of assets at the beginning and end of the reporting year, income
received during the year, disbursements for the support of the ward, and other
expenses incurred by the estate.  The guardian shall also report the physical
conditions of the ward, the place of residence, and a list of others living in
the same household.  The court may require additional information.  The forms
for both the informal report for estates under $50,000, excluding the
residence owned by the ward, and the full accounting report for larger estates
shall be approved by the Judicial Council.  This annual report shall be
examined and approved by the court.  If the ward's income is limited to a
federal or state program requiring an annual accounting report, a copy of that
report may be submitted to the court in lieu of the required annual report.
(iii)  Corporate fiduciaries are not required to petition the court, but shall
submit their internal report annually to the court.  The report shall be
examined and approved by the court.
(iv)  The guardian shall also render an annual accounting of the status of the
person to the court which shall be included in the petition or the informal
annual report as required under Subsection (2)(e). If a fee is paid for an
accounting of an estate, no fee shall be charged for an accounting of the
status of a person.
(v)  If a guardian:
(A)  makes a substantial misstatement on filings of annual reports;
(B)  is guilty of gross impropriety in handling the property of the ward; or
(C)  willfully fails to file the report required by this subsection, after
receiving written notice from the court of the failure to file and after a
grace period of two months has elapsed, the court may impose a penalty in an
amount not to exceed $5,000.  The court may also order restitution of funds
misappropriated from the estate of a ward.  The penalty shall be paid by the
guardian and may not be paid by the estate.
(vi)  These provisions and penalties governing annual reports do not apply if
the guardian is the parent of the ward.
(f)  If a conservator has been appointed, all of the ward's estate received by
the guardian in excess of those funds expended to meet current expenses for
support, care, and education of the ward must be paid to the conservator for
management as provided in this code; and the guardian must account to the
conservator for funds expended.
(3)  Any guardian of one for whom a conservator also has been appointed shall
control the custody and care of the ward and is entitled to receive reasonable
sums for services and for room and board furnished to the ward as agreed upon
between the guardian and the conservator, if the amounts agreed upon are
reasonable under the circumstances.  The guardian may request the conservator
to expend the ward's estate by payment to third persons or institutions for
the ward's care and maintenance.
