75-5-501.   Power of attorney not affected by disability or lapse of time --
Agent responsibilities.
(1)  Whenever a principal designates another his attorney-in-fact or agent by
a power of attorney in writing and the writing contains the words "This power
of attorney shall not be affected by disability of the principal," or "This
power of attorney shall become effective upon the disability of the
principal," or similar words showing the intent of the principal that the
authority conferred shall be exercisable notwithstanding his disability, the
authority of the attorney-in-fact or agent is exercisable by him as provided
in the power on behalf of the principal notwithstanding:
(a)  later disability or incapacity of the principal at law or later
uncertainty as to whether the principal is dead or alive; or
(b)  the lapse of time since the execution of the instrument, unless the
instrument states a time of termination.
(2)  If an attorney-in-fact or agent determines that the principal has become
incapacitated or disabled and the power of attorney by its terms remains in
effect or becomes effective as a result of a principal's incapacity or
disability, the attorney-in-fact or agent shall:
(a)  notify all interested persons of his status as the power of attorney
holder within 30 days of the principal's incapacitation, and provide them with
his name and address;
(b)  provide to any interested persons upon written request, a copy of the
power of attorney;
(c)  provide to any interested persons upon written request, an annual
accounting of the assets to which the power of attorney applies, unless the
power of attorney specifically directs that the attorney-in-fact or agent is
not required to do so; and
(d)  notify all interested persons upon the death of the principal.
(3)  All interested persons shall be notified within ten days if the attorney-
in-fact or agent changes.  The notification shall be made by the new attorney-
in-fact or agent who shall then be accountable to the interested persons in
accordance with Subsection (2).
(4)  All acts done by the attorney-in-fact or agent pursuant to the power
during any period of disability or incompetence or uncertainty as to whether
the principal is dead or alive have the same effect and inure to the benefit
of and bind the principal or his heirs, devisees, and personal representative
as if the principal were alive, competent, and not disabled, except as
provided in Section 75-5-503.
(5)  A conservator may be appointed for a principal even though the principal
has a valid power of attorney in place.  If a conservator thereafter is
appointed for the principal, the attorney-in-fact or agent, during the
continuance of the appointment, shall account to the conservator rather than
the principal. The conservator, pursuant to court order as provided in
Subsection 75-5-408(1)(d), has the same power the principal would have had if
he were not disabled or incompetent to revoke, suspend, or terminate all or
any part of the power of attorney or agency.
(6)  For the purposes of this section, "interested person" means any person
entitled to a part of the principal's estate from the principal's will or
through the intestacy laws, whichever is applicable.
