73-18-2.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Anchored" means a vessel that is temporarily attached to the bed or shoreline of a waterbody by any method and the hull of the vessel is not touching the bed or shoreline.

(2)  "Beached" means that a vessel's hull is resting on the bed or shoreline of a waterbody.

(3)  "Board" means the Board of Parks and Recreation.

(4)  "Boat livery" means a person that holds a vessel for renting or leasing.

(5)  "Carrying passengers for hire" means to transport persons on vessels or to lead persons on vessels for consideration.

(6)  "Consideration" means something of value given or done in exchange for something given or done by another.

(7)  "Dealer" means any person who is licensed by the appropriate authority to engage in and who is engaged in the business of buying and selling vessels or of manufacturing them for sale.

(8)  "Derelict vessel":

(a)  means a vessel that is left, stored, or abandoned upon the waters of this state in a wrecked, junked, or substantially dismantled condition; and

(b)  includes:

(i)  a vessel left at a Utah port or marina without consent of the agency or other entity administering the port or marine area; and

(ii)  a vessel left docked or grounded upon a property without the property owner's consent.

(9)  "Division" means the Division of Parks and Recreation.

(10)  "Moored" means long term, on the water vessel storage in an area designated and properly marked by the division or other applicable managing agency.

(11)  "Motorboat" means any vessel propelled by machinery, whether or not the machinery is the principal source of propulsion.

(12)  "Operate" means to navigate, control, or otherwise use a vessel.

(13)  "Operator" means the person who is in control of a vessel while it is in use.

(14)  "Outfitting company" means any person who, for consideration:

(a)  provides equipment to transport persons on all waters of this state; and

(b)  supervises a person who:

(i)  operates a vessel to transport passengers; or

(ii)  leads a person on a vessel.

(15) (a)  "Owner" means a person, other than a lien holder, holding a proprietary interest in or the title to a vessel.

(b)  "Owner" includes a person entitled to the use or possession of a vessel subject to an interest by another person, reserved or created by agreement and securing payment or performance of an obligation.

(c)  "Owner" does not include a lessee under a lease not intended as security.

(16)  "Personal watercraft" means a motorboat that is:

(a)  less than 16 feet in length;

(b)  propelled by a water jet pump; and

(c)  designed to be operated by a person sitting, standing, or kneeling on the vessel, rather than sitting or standing inside the vessel.

(17)  "Sailboat" means any vessel having one or more sails and propelled by wind.

(18)  "Vessel" means every type of watercraft, other than a seaplane on the water, used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.

(19)  "Wakeless speed" means an operating speed at which the vessel does not create or make a wake or white water trailing the vessel.  This speed is not in excess of five miles per hour.

(20)  "Waters of this state" means any waters within the territorial limits of this state.

