73-18-8.   Safety equipment required to be on board vessels.

(1) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (1)(c), each vessel shall have, for each person on board, one personal flotation device that is approved for the type of use by the commandant of the United States Coast Guard.

(b)  Each personal flotation device shall be:

(i)  in serviceable condition;

(ii)  legally marked with the United States Coast Guard approval number; and

(iii)  of an appropriate size for the person for whom it is intended.

(c) (i)  Sailboards are exempt from the provisions of Subsection (1)(a).

(ii)  The board may exempt certain types of vessels from the provisions of Subsection (1)(a) under certain conditions or upon certain waters.

(d)  The board may require by rule for personal flotation devices to be worn:

(i)  while a person is on board a certain type of vessel;

(ii)  by a person under a certain age; or

(iii)  on certain waters of the state.

(e)  For vessels 16 feet or more in length, there shall also be on board, one Type IV throwable personal flotation device which is approved for this use by the commandant of the United States Coast Guard.

(2)  The operator of a vessel operated between sunset and sunrise shall display lighted navigation lights approved by the division.

(3)  If a vessel is not entirely open and it carries or uses any flammable or toxic fluid in any enclosure for any purpose, the vessel shall be equipped with an efficient natural or mechanical ventilation system that is capable of removing resulting gases before and during the time the vessel is occupied by any person.

(4)  Each vessel shall have fire extinguishing equipment on board.

(5)  Any inboard gasoline engine shall be equipped with a carburetor backfire flame control device.

(6)  The board may:

(a)  require additional safety equipment by rule; and

(b)  adopt rules conforming with the requirements of this section which govern specifications for and the use of safety equipment.

(7)  A person may not operate or give permission for the operation of a vessel that is not equipped as required by this section or rules promulgated under this section.

