73-18-13.   Duties of operator involved in accident -- Notification and
reporting procedures -- Use of accident reports -- Giving false information as
misdemeanor.
(1)  As used in this section, "agent" has the same meaning as provided in
Section 41-6a-404.
(2)  It is the duty of the operator of a vessel involved in an accident, if he
can do so without seriously endangering his own vessel, crew, or passengers,
to render aid to those affected by the accident as may be practicable.  The
operator shall also give his name, address, and identification of his vessel
in writing to any person injured or to the owner of any property damaged in
the accident.
(3) (a)  The board shall adopt rules governing the notification and reporting
procedure for vessels involved in accidents.
(b)  The rules shall be consistent with federal requirements.
(4) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), all accident reports:
(i)  are protected and shall be for the confidential use of the division or
other state, local, or federal agencies having use for the records for
official governmental statistical, investigative, and accident prevention
purposes; and
(ii)  may be disclosed only in a statistical form that protects the privacy of
any person involved in the accident.
(b)  The division shall disclose a written accident report and its
accompanying data to:
(i)  a person involved in the accident, excluding a witness to the accident;
(ii)  a person suffering loss or injury in the accident;
(iii)  an agent, parent, or legal guardian of a person described in
Subsections (4)(b)(i) and (ii);
(iv)  a member of the press or broadcast news media;
(v)  a state, local, or federal agency that uses the records for official
governmental, investigative, or accident prevention purposes;
(vi)  law enforcement personnel when acting in their official governmental
capacity; and
(vii)  a licensed private investigator.
(c)  Information provided to a member of the press or broadcast news media
under Subsection (4)(b)(iv) may only include:
(i)  the name, age, sex, and city of residence of each person involved in the
accident;
(ii)  the make and model year of each vehicle involved in the accident;
(iii)  whether or not each person involved in the accident was covered by a
vehicle insurance policy;
(iv)  the location of the accident; and
(v)  a description of the accident that excludes personal identifying
information not listed in Subsection (4)(c)(i).
(5) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b), an accident report may not
be used as evidence in any civil or criminal trial, arising out of an
accident.
(b)  Upon demand of any person who has, or claims to have, made the report, or
upon demand of any court, the division shall furnish a certificate showing
that a specified accident report has or has not been made to the division
solely to prove a compliance or a failure to comply with the requirement that
a report be made to the division. Accident reports may be used as evidence
when necessary to prosecute charges filed in connection with a violation of
Subsection (6).
(6)  Any person who gives false information, knowingly or having reason to
believe it is false, in an oral or written report as required in this chapter,
is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.
