36-11-102.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Aggregate daily expenditures" means:
(a)  for a single lobbyist, principal, or government officer, the total of all
expenditures made within a calendar day by the lobbyist, principal, or
government officer for the benefit of an individual public official;
(b)  when an expenditure is made by a member of a lobbyist group, the total of
all expenditures made within a calendar day by every member of the lobbyist
group for the benefit of an individual public official; or
(c)  for a multiclient lobbyist, the total of all expenditures made by the
multiclient lobbyist within a calendar day for the benefit of an individual
public official, regardless of whether expenditures were attributed to
different clients.
(2)  "Executive action" means:
(a)  nominations and appointments by the governor;
(b)  the proposal, drafting, amendment, enactment, or defeat by a state agency
of any rule made in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act; and
(c)  agency ratemaking proceedings.
(3) (a)  "Expenditure" means any of the items listed in this Subsection (3)(a)
when given to or for the benefit of a public official:
(i)  a purchase, payment, distribution, loan, gift, advance, deposit,
subscription, forbearance, services, or goods, unless consideration of equal
or greater value is received; and
(ii)  a contract, promise, or agreement, whether or not legally enforceable,
to provide any of the items listed in Subsection (3)(a)(i).
(b)  "Expenditure" does not mean:
(i)  a commercially reasonable loan made in the ordinary course of business;
(ii)  a campaign contribution reported in accordance with Title 20A, Chapter
11, Campaign and Financial Reporting Requirements;
(iii)  printed informational material that is related to the performance of
the recipient's official duties;
(iv)  a devise or inheritance;
(v)  any item listed in Subsection (3)(a) if given by a relative;
(vi)  a modest item of food or refreshment such as a beverage or pastry
offered other than as part of a meal, the value of which does not exceed $5;
(vii)  a greeting card or other item of little intrinsic value that is
intended solely for presentation; or
(viii)  plaques, commendations, or awards presented in public and having a
cash value not exceeding $50.
(4)  "Gift" is as defined in Section 36-11-304.
(5) (a)  "Government officer" means:
(i)  an individual elected to a position in state or local government, when
acting within the government officer’s official capacity; or
(ii)  an individual appointed to or employed in a full-time position by state
or local government, when acting within the scope of the individual’s
employment.
(b)  "Government officer" does not mean a member of the legislative branch of
state government.
(6)  "Immediate family" means:
(a)  a spouse;
(b)  a child residing in the household; or
(c)  an individual claimed as a dependent for tax purposes.
(7)  "Interested person" means an individual defined in Subsections
(10)(b)(iii) and (viii).
(8)  "Legislative action" means:
(a)  bills, resolutions, amendments, nominations, and other matters pending or
proposed in either house of the Legislature or its committees or requested by
a legislator; and
(b)  the action of the governor in approving or vetoing legislation.
(9)  "Lobbying" means communicating with a public official for the purpose of
influencing the passage, defeat, amendment, or postponement of legislative or
executive action.
(10) (a)  "Lobbyist" means:
(i)  an individual who is employed by a principal; or
(ii)  an individual who contracts for economic consideration, other than
reimbursement for reasonable travel expenses, with a principal to lobby a
public official.
(b)  "Lobbyist" does not include:
(i)  a government officer;
(ii)  a member or employee of the legislative branch of government;
(iii)  any person appearing at, or providing written comments to, a hearing
conducted in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act or Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act;
(iv)  any person participating on or appearing before an advisory or study
task force, commission, board, or committee, constituted by the Legislature or
any agency or department of state government, except legislative standing,
appropriation, or interim committees;
(v)  a representative of a political party;
(vi)  an individual representing a bona fide church solely for the purpose of
protecting the right to practice the religious doctrines of the church unless
the individual or church makes an expenditure that confers a benefit on a
public official;
(vii)  a newspaper, television station or network, radio station or network,
periodical of general circulation, or book publisher for the purpose of
publishing news items, editorials, other comments, or paid advertisements that
directly or indirectly urge legislative or executive action; or
(viii)  an individual who appears on the individual’s own behalf before a
committee of the Legislature or an executive branch agency solely for the
purpose of testifying in support of or in opposition to legislative or
executive action.
(11)  "Lobbyist group" means two or more lobbyists, principals, government
officers, and any combination of lobbyists, principals, and officers who each
contribute a portion of an expenditure made to benefit a public official or
member of the public official's immediate family.
(12)  "Multiclient lobbyist" means a single lobbyist, principal, or government
officer who represents two or more clients and divides the aggregate daily
expenditure made to benefit a public official or member of the public
official's immediate family between two or more of those clients.
(13)  "Person" includes individuals, bodies politic and corporate,
partnerships, associations, and companies.
(14)  "Principal" means a person that employs an individual to perform
lobbying either as an employee or as an independent contractor.
(15)  "Public official" means:
(a) (i)  a member of the Legislature;
(ii)  an individual elected to a position in the executive branch; or
(iii)  an individual appointed to or employed in the executive or legislative
branch if that individual:
(A)  occupies a policymaking position or makes purchasing or contracting
decisions;
(B)  drafts legislation or makes rules;
(C)  determines rates or fees; or
(D)  makes adjudicative decisions; or
(b)  an immediate family member of a person described in Subsection (15)(a).
(16)  "Public official type" means a notation to identify whether a public
official is:
(a) (i)  a member of the Legislature;
(ii)  an individual elected to a position in the executive branch;
(iii)  an individual appointed to or employed in a position in the legislative
branch who meets the definition of public official under Subsection
(15)(a)(iii); or
(iv)  an individual appointed to or employed in a position in the executive
branch who meets the definition of public official under Subsection
(15)(a)(iii); or
(b)  an immediate family member of a person described in Subsection (15)(b).
(17)  "Quarterly reporting period" means the three-month period covered by
each financial report required under Subsection 36-11-201(2)(a).
(18)  "Related person" means any person, or agent or employee of a person, who
knowingly and intentionally assists a lobbyist, principal, or government
officer in lobbying.
(19)  "Relative" means a spouse, child, parent, grandparent, grandchild,
brother, sister, parent-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, nephew, niece,
aunt, uncle, first cousin, or spouse of any of these individuals.
(20) "Tangible personal property" means an item having a description that is
consistent with the meaning of tangible personal property found in the Utah
Constitution, Article XIII.
