30-3-5.   Disposition of property -- Maintenance and health care of parties
and children -- Division of debts -- Court to have continuing jurisdiction --
Custody and parent-time -- Determination of alimony -- Nonmeritorious petition
for modification.
(1)  When a decree of divorce is rendered, the court may include in it
equitable orders relating to the children, property, debts or obligations, and
parties.  The court shall include the following in every decree of divorce:
(a)  an order assigning responsibility for the payment of reasonable and
necessary medical and dental expenses of the dependent children;
(b)  if coverage is or becomes available at a reasonable cost, an order
requiring the purchase and maintenance of appropriate health, hospital, and
dental care insurance for the dependent children;
(c)  pursuant to Section 15-4-6.5:
(i)  an order specifying which party is responsible for the payment of joint
debts, obligations, or liabilities of the parties contracted or incurred
during marriage;
(ii)  an order requiring the parties to notify respective creditors or
obligees, regarding the court's division of debts, obligations, or liabilities
and regarding the parties' separate, current addresses; and
(iii)  provisions for the enforcement of these orders; and
(d)  provisions for income withholding in accordance with Title 62A, Chapter
11, Recovery Services.
(2)  The court may include, in an order determining child support, an order
assigning financial responsibility for all or a portion of child care expenses
incurred on behalf of the dependent children, necessitated by the employment
or training of the custodial parent.  If the court determines that the
circumstances are appropriate and that the dependent children would be
adequately cared for, it may include an order allowing the noncustodial parent
to provide child care for the dependent children, necessitated by the
employment or training of the custodial parent.
(3)  The court has continuing jurisdiction to make subsequent changes or new
orders for the custody of the children and their support, maintenance, health,
and dental care, and for distribution of the property and obligations for
debts as is reasonable and necessary.
(4)  Child support, custody, visitation, and other matters related to children
born to the mother and father after entry of the decree of divorce may be
added to the decree by modification.
(5) (a)  In determining parent-time rights of parents and visitation rights of
grandparents and other members of the immediate family, the court shall
consider the best interest of the child.
(b)  Upon a specific finding by the court of the need for peace officer
enforcement, the court may include in an order establishing a parent-time or
visitation schedule a provision, among other things, authorizing any peace
officer to enforce a court-ordered parent-time or visitation schedule entered
under this chapter.
(6)  If a petition for modification of child custody or parent-time provisions
of a court order is made and denied, the court shall order the petitioner to
pay the reasonable attorneys' fees expended by the prevailing party in that
action, if the court determines that the petition was without merit and not
asserted or defended against in good faith.
(7)  If a petition alleges noncompliance with a parent-time order by a parent,
or a visitation order by a grandparent or other member of the immediate family
where a visitation or parent-time right has been previously granted by the
court, the court may award to the prevailing party costs, including actual
attorney fees and court costs incurred by the prevailing party because of the
other party's failure to provide or exercise court-ordered visitation or
parent-time.
(8) (a)  The court shall consider at least the following factors in
determining alimony:
(i)  the financial condition and needs of the recipient spouse;
(ii)  the recipient's earning capacity or ability to produce income;
(iii)  the ability of the payor spouse to provide support;
(iv)  the length of the marriage;
(v)  whether the recipient spouse has custody of minor children requiring
support;
(vi)  whether the recipient spouse worked in a business owned or operated by
the payor spouse; and
(vii)  whether the recipient spouse directly contributed to any increase in
the payor spouse's skill by paying for education received by the payor spouse
or allowing the payor spouse to attend school during the marriage.
(b)  The court may consider the fault of the parties in determining alimony.
(c)  As a general rule, the court should look to the standard of living,
existing at the time of separation, in determining alimony in accordance with
Subsection (8)(a).  However, the court shall consider all relevant facts and
equitable principles and may, in its discretion, base alimony on the standard
of living that existed at the time of trial.  In marriages of short duration,
when no children have been conceived or born during the marriage, the court
may consider the standard of living that existed at the time of the marriage.
(d)  The court may, under appropriate circumstances, attempt to equalize the
parties' respective standards of living.
(e)  When a marriage of long duration dissolves on the threshold of a major
change in the income of one of the spouses due to the collective efforts of
both, that change shall be considered in dividing the marital property and in
determining the amount of alimony.  If one spouse's earning capacity has been
greatly enhanced through the efforts of both spouses during the marriage, the
court may make a compensating adjustment in dividing the marital property and
awarding alimony.
(f)  In determining alimony when a marriage of short duration dissolves, and
no children have been conceived or born during the marriage, the court may
consider restoring each party to the condition which existed at the time of
the marriage.
(g) (i)  The court has continuing jurisdiction to make substantive changes and
new orders regarding alimony based on a substantial material change in
circumstances not foreseeable at the time of the divorce.
(ii)  The court may not modify alimony or issue a new order for alimony to
address needs of the recipient that did not exist at the time the decree was
entered, unless the court finds extenuating circumstances that justify that
action.
(iii)  In determining alimony, the income of any subsequent spouse of the
payor may not be considered, except as provided in this Subsection (8).
(A)  The court may consider the subsequent spouse's financial ability to share
living expenses.
(B)  The court may consider the income of a subsequent spouse if the court
finds that the payor's improper conduct justifies that consideration.
(h)  Alimony may not be ordered for a duration longer than the number of years
that the marriage existed unless, at any time prior to termination of alimony,
the court finds extenuating circumstances that justify the payment of alimony
for a longer period of time.
(9)  Unless a decree of divorce specifically provides otherwise, any order of
the court that a party pay alimony to a former spouse automatically terminates
upon the remarriage or death of that former spouse.  However, if the
remarriage is annulled and found to be void ab initio, payment of alimony
shall resume if the party paying alimony is made a party to the action of
annulment and his rights are determined.
(10)  Any order of the court that a party pay alimony to a former spouse
terminates upon establishment by the party paying alimony that the former
spouse is cohabitating with another person.
