30-3-10.4.   Modification or termination of order.
(1)  On the petition of one or both of the parents, or the joint legal or
physical custodians if they are not the parents, the court may, after a
hearing, modify or terminate an order that established joint legal or physical
custody if:
(a)  the verified petition or accompanying affidavit initially alleges that
admissible evidence will show that the circumstances of the child or one or
both parents or joint legal or physical custodians have materially and
substantially changed since the entry of the order to be modified;
(b)  a modification of the terms and conditions of the order would be an
improvement for and in the best interest of the child; and
(c) (i)  both parents have complied in good faith with the dispute resolution
procedure in accordance with Subsection 30-3-10.3(7); or
(ii)  if no dispute resolution procedure is contained in the order that
established joint legal or physical custody, the court orders the parents to
participate in a dispute resolution procedure in accordance with Subsection
30-3-10.2(5) unless the parents certify that, in good faith, they have
utilized a dispute resolution procedure to resolve their dispute.
(2) (a)  In determining whether the best interest of a child will be served by
either modifying or terminating the joint legal or physical custody order, the
court shall, in addition to other factors the court considers relevant,
consider the factors outlined in Section 30-3-10 and Subsection 30-3-10.2(2).
(b)  The court shall make specific written findings on each of the factors
relied upon stating:
(i)  a material and substantial change of circumstance has occurred; and
(ii)  a modification of the terms and conditions of the order would be an
improvement for and in the best interest of the child.
(c)  The court shall give substantial weight to the existing joint legal or
physical custody order when the child is thriving, happy, and well-adjusted.
(3)  The court shall, in every case regarding a petition for termination of a
joint legal or physical custody order, consider reasonable alternatives to
preserve the existing order in accordance with Subsection 30-3-10(1)(b).  The
court may modify the terms and conditions of the existing order in accordance
with Subsection 30-3-10(5) and may order the parents to file a parenting plan
in accordance with this chapter.
(4)  A parent requesting a modification from sole custody to joint legal
custody or joint physical custody or both, or any other type of shared
parenting arrangement, shall file and serve a proposed parenting plan with the
petition to modify in accordance with Section 30-3-10.8.
(5)  If the court finds that an action under this section is filed or answered
frivolously and in a manner designed to harass the other party, the court
shall assess attorney fees as costs against the offending party.
