30-3-11.4.   Mandatory orientation course for divorcing parties -- Purpose
-- Curriculum -- Exceptions.
(1)  There is established a mandatory divorce orientation course for all
parties with minor children who file a petition for temporary separation or
for a divorce.  A couple with no minor children are not required, but may
choose to attend the course.  The purpose of the course shall be to educate
parties about the divorce process and reasonable alternatives.
(2)  A petitioner shall attend a divorce orientation course no more than 60
days after filing a petition for divorce.
(3)  The respondent shall attend the divorce orientation course no more than
30 days after being served with a petition for divorce.
(4)  The clerk of the court shall provide notice to a petitioner of the
requirement for the course, and information regarding the course shall be
included with the petition or motion, when served on the respondent.
(5)  The divorce orientation course shall be neutral, unbiased, at least one
hour in duration, and include:
(a)  options available as alternatives to divorce;
(b)  resources available from courts and administrative agencies for resolving
custody and support issues without filing for divorce;
(c)  resources available to improve or strengthen the marriage;
(d)  a discussion of the positive and negative consequences of divorce;
(e)  a discussion of the process of divorce;
(f)  options available for proceeding with a divorce, including:
(i)  mediation;
(ii)  collaborative law; and
(iii)  litigation; and
(g)  a discussion of post-divorce resources.
(6)  The course may be provided in conjunction with the mandatory course for
divorcing parents required by Section 30-3-11.3.
(7)  The Administrative Office of the Courts shall administer the course
pursuant to Title 63G, Chapter 6, Utah Procurement Code, through private or
public contracts.
(8)  Each participant shall pay the costs of the course, which may not exceed
$20, to the independent contractor providing the course at the time and place
of the course.
(a)  A fee of $5 shall be collected, as part of the course fee paid by each
participant, and deposited in the Children's Legal Defense Account described
in Section 51-9-408.
(b)  A participant who is unable to pay the costs of the course may attend
without payment and request an Affidavit of Impecuniosity from the provider to
be filed with the petition or motion.  The provider shall be reimbursed for
its costs by the Administrative Office of the Courts.  A petitioner who is
later determined not to meet the qualifications for impecuniosity may be
ordered to pay the costs of the course.
(9)  Appropriations from the General Fund to the Administrative Office of the
Courts for the divorce orientation course shall be used to pay the costs of an
indigent petitioner who is determined to be impecunious as provided in
Subsection (8)(b).
(10)  The Online Court Assistance Program shall include instructions with the
forms for divorce which inform the petitioner of the requirement of this
section.
(11)  Both parties shall attend a divorce orientation course before a divorce
decree may be entered, unless waived by the court.  A certificate of
completion constitutes evidence to the court of course completion by the
parties.
(12)  It shall be an affirmative defense in all divorce actions that the
divorce orientation requirement was not complied with, and the action may not
continue until a party has complied.
(13)  The Administrative Office of the Courts shall adopt a program to
evaluate the effectiveness of the mandatory educational course.  Progress
reports shall be provided annually to the Judiciary Interim Committee.
