62A-16-302.   Reporting to, and review by, legislative committees.
(1)  The Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel shall provide a
copy of the report described in Subsection 62A-16-301(1)(b), and the responses
described in Subsections 62A-16-301(2) and (4)(c) to the chairs of:
(a)  the Health and Human Services Interim Committee; or
(b)  if the individual who is the subject of the report was, at the time of
death, a person described in Subsection 62A-16-102(2)(c) or (d), the Child
Welfare Legislative Oversight Panel.
(2) (a)  The Health and Human Services Interim Committee may, in a closed
meeting, review a report described in Subsection 62A-16-301(1)(b).
(b)  The Child Welfare Legislative Oversight Panel shall, in a closed meeting,
review a report described in Subsection (1)(b).
(3) (a)  Neither the Health and Human Services Interim Committee nor the Child
Welfare Legislative Oversight Panel may interfere with, or make
recommendations regarding, the resolution of a particular case.
(b)  The purpose of a review described in Subsection (2) is to assist a
committee or panel described in Subsection (2) in determining whether to
recommend a change in the law.
(c)  Any recommendation, described in Subsection (3)(b), by a committee or
panel for a change in the law shall be made in an open meeting.
(4)  On or before September 1 of each year, the department shall provide an
executive summary of all fatality review reports for the preceding state
fiscal year to:
(a)  the Health and Human Services Interim Committee; and
(b)  the Child Welfare Legislative Oversight Panel.
(5)  The executive summary described in Subsection (4):
(a)  may not include any names or identifying information; and
(b)  shall include:
(i)  all recommendations regarding changes to the law that were made during
the preceding fiscal year under Subsection 62A-16-204(6);
(ii)  all changes made, or in the process of being made, to a law, rule,
policy, or procedure in response to a fatality review that occurred during the
preceding fiscal year;
(iii)  a description of the training that has been completed in response to a
fatality review that occurred during the preceding fiscal year;
(iv)  statistics for the preceding fiscal year regarding:
(A)  the number and type of fatalities of qualified individuals that are known
to the department;
(B)  the number of formal fatality reviews conducted;
(C)  the categories, described in Subsection 62A-16-102(2) of qualified
individuals who died;
(D)  the gender, age, race, and other significant categories of qualified
individuals who died; and
(E)  the number of fatalities of qualified individuals known to the department
that are identified as suicides; and
(v)  action taken by the Office of Licensing and the Bureau of Internal Review
and Audits in response to the fatality of a qualified individual.
