63G-6-103 (Superseded 05/01/13).   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Architect-engineer services" are those professional services within the scope of the practice of architecture as defined in Section 58-3a-102, or professional engineering as defined in Section 58-22-102.

(2)  "Business" means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.

(3)  "Change order" means a written order signed by the procurement officer, directing the contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses of the contract authorize the procurement officer to order without the consent of the contractor or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point, rate of delivery, period of performance, price, quantity, or other provisions of any contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.

(4) (a)  "Construction" means the process of building, renovation, alteration, improvement, or repair of any public building or public work.

(b)  "Construction" does not mean the routine operation, routine repair, or routine maintenance of existing structures, buildings, or real property.

(5) (a)  "Construction Manager/General Contractor" means any contractor who enters into a contract for the management of a construction project when that contract allows the contractor to subcontract for additional labor and materials that were not included in the contractor's cost proposal submitted at the time of the procurement of the Construction Manager/General Contractor's services.

(b)  "Construction Manager/General Contractor" does not mean a contractor whose only subcontract work not included in the contractor's cost proposal submitted as part of the procurement of construction is to meet subcontracted portions of change orders approved within the scope of the project.

(6)  "Contract" means any state agreement for the procurement or disposal of supplies, services, or construction.

(7)  "Cooperative purchasing" means procurement conducted by, or on behalf of, more than one public procurement unit, or by a public procurement unit with an external procurement unit.

(8)  "Cost-reimbursement contract" means a contract under which a contractor is reimbursed for costs which are allowed and allocated in accordance with the contract terms and the provisions of this chapter, and a fee, if any.

(9) (a)  "Design-build" means the procurement of architect-engineer services and construction by the use of a single contract with the design-build provider.

(b)  This method of design and construction can include the design-build provider supplying the site as part of the contract.

(10)  "Established catalogue price" means the price included in a catalogue, price list, schedule, or other form that:

(a)  is regularly maintained by a manufacturer or contractor;

(b)  is either published or otherwise available for inspection by customers; and

(c)  states prices at which sales are currently or were last made to a significant number of any category of buyers or buyers constituting the general buying public for the supplies or services involved.

(11)  "External procurement unit" means any buying organization not located in this state which, if located in this state, would qualify as a public procurement unit.  An agency of the United States is an external procurement unit.

(12)  "Grant" means the furnishing by the state or by any other public or private source assistance, whether financial or otherwise, to any person to support a program authorized by law.  It does not include an award whose primary purpose is to procure an end product, whether in the form of supplies, services, or construction.  A contract resulting from the award is not a grant but a procurement contract.

(13)  "Invitation for bids" means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by reference, utilized for soliciting bids.

(14)  "Local public procurement unit" means any political subdivision or institution of higher education of the state or public agency of any subdivision, public authority, educational, health, or other institution, and to the extent provided by law, any other entity which expends public funds for the procurement of supplies, services, and construction, but not counties, municipalities, an agency created under Title 17C, Limited Purpose Local Government Entities - Community Development and Renewal Agencies Act, political subdivisions created by counties or municipalities under the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Utah Housing Corporation, or the Legislature and its staff offices.  It includes two or more local public procurement units acting under legislation which authorizes intergovernmental cooperation.

(15)  "Person" means any business, individual, union, committee, club, other organization, or group of individuals, not including a state agency or a local public procurement unit.

(16)  "Policy board" means the procurement policy board created by Section 63G-6-201.

(17)  "Preferred bidder" means a bidder that is entitled to receive a reciprocal preference under the requirements of this chapter.

(18)  "Procurement" means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with an option to purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services, or construction.  It also includes all functions that pertain to the obtaining of any supply, service, or construction, including description of requirements, selection, and solicitation of sources, preparation, and award of a contract, and all phases of contract administration.

(19)  "Procurement officer" means any person or board duly authorized to enter into and administer contracts and make written determinations with respect thereto.  It also includes an authorized representative acting within the limits of authority.

(20)  "Public procurement unit" means either a local public procurement unit or a state public procurement unit.

(21)  "Purchase description" means the words used in a solicitation to describe the supplies, services, or construction to be purchased, and includes specifications attached to or made a part of the solicitation.

(22)  "Purchasing agency" means any state agency other than the Division of Purchasing and General Services that is authorized by this chapter or its implementing regulations, or by delegation from the chief procurement officer, to enter into contracts.

(23)  "Request for proposals" means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by reference, used for soliciting proposals.

(24)  "Responsible bidder or offeror" means a person who has the capability in all respects to perform fully the contract requirements and who has the integrity and reliability which will assure good faith performance.

(25)  "Responsive bidder" means a person who has submitted a bid which conforms in all material respects to the invitation for bids.

(26)  "Sealed" does not preclude acceptance of electronically sealed and submitted bids or proposals in addition to bids or proposals manually sealed and submitted.

(27)  "Services" means the furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a contractor, not involving the delivery of a specific end product other than reports which are merely incidental to the required performance.  It does not include employment agreements or collective bargaining agreements.

(28)  "Specification" means any description of the physical or functional characteristics, or of the nature of a supply, service, technology, or construction item.  It may include a description of any requirement for inspecting, testing, or preparing a supply, service, technology, or construction item for delivery.

(29)  "State agency" or "the state" means any department, division, commission, council, board, bureau, committee, institution, government corporation, or other establishment, official, or employee of this state.

(30)  "State public procurement unit" means the Division of Purchasing and General Services and any other purchasing agency of this state.

(31)  "Supplies" means all property, including equipment, materials, and printing.

(32)  "Using agency" means any state agency which utilizes any supplies, services, or construction procured under this chapter.



Amended by Chapter 235, 2012 General Session

