63G-6-201.   Creation of procurement policy board.
(1) (a)  There is created a state procurement policy board.
(b)  The policy board shall consist of eight members who shall be appointed as
follows:
(i)  an employee of a state institution of higher education, appointed by the
board of regents;
(ii)  an employee of the Department of Human Services, appointed by the
executive director of that department;
(iii)  an employee of the Department of Transportation, appointed by the
executive director of that department;
(iv)  an employee of a school district appointed by a cooperative purchasing
entity for school districts;
(v)  an employee of the Division of Facilities Construction and Management
appointed by the director of that division;
(vi)  an employee of a county, appointed by the Utah Association of Counties;
(vii)  an employee of a city, appointed by the Utah League of Cities and
Towns; and
(viii)  an employee of a local district or special service district, appointed
by the Utah Association of Special Districts.
(c)  Members of the policy board shall be knowledgeable and experienced in,
and have supervisory responsibility for, procurement in their official
positions.
(2)  Members shall be appointed to four-year staggered terms.
(3)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(4) (a)  The policy board shall:
(i)  adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business; and
(ii)  elect a chair to serve for one year.
(b)  The chair may be elected to succeeding terms.
(c)  The chief procurement officer shall serve as the nonvoting secretary to
the policy board.
(5) (a) (i)  Members who are not government employees shall receive no
compensation or benefits for their services, but may receive per diem and
expenses incurred in the performance of the member’s official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(b) (i)  State government officer and employee members who do not receive
salary, per diem, or expenses from their agency for their service may receive
per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
from the board at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  State government officer and employee members may decline to receive per
diem and expenses for their service.
(c) (i)  Higher education members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties from
the committee at the rates established by the Division of Finance under
Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(ii)  Higher education members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
(d) (i)  Local government members who do not receive salary, per diem, or
expenses from the entity that they represent for their service may receive per
diem and expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties at the
rates established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
(ii)  Local government members may decline to receive per diem and expenses
for their service.
