63G-6-404 (Superseded 05/01/13).   Preference for providers of state products.

(1) (a)  All public procurement units shall, in all purchases of goods, supplies, equipment, materials, and printing, give a reciprocal preference to those bidders offering goods, supplies, equipment, materials, or printing produced, manufactured, mined, grown, or performed in Utah as against those bidders offering goods, supplies, equipment, materials, or printing produced, manufactured, mined, grown, or performed in any state that gives or requires a preference to goods, supplies, equipment, materials, or printing produced, manufactured, mined, grown, or performed in that state.

(b)  The amount of reciprocal preference shall be equal to the amount of the preference applied by the other state for that particular good, supply, equipment, material, or printing.

(c) (i)  The bidder shall certify on the bid that the goods, supplies, equipment, materials, or printing offered are produced, manufactured, mined, grown, or performed in Utah.

(ii)  The reciprocal preference is waived if that certification does not appear on the bid.

(2) (a)  If the bidder submitting the lowest responsive and responsible bid offers goods, supplies, equipment, materials, or printing produced, manufactured, mined, grown, or performed in a state that gives or requires a preference, and if another bidder has submitted a responsive and responsible bid offering goods, supplies, equipment, materials, or printing produced, manufactured, mined, grown, or performed in Utah, and with the benefit of the reciprocal preference, his bid is equal to or less than the original lowest bid, the procurement officer shall:

(i)  give notice to the bidder offering goods, supplies, equipment, materials, or printing produced, manufactured, mined, grown, or performed in Utah that the bidder qualifies as a preferred bidder; and

(ii)  make the purchase from the preferred bidder if, the bidder agrees, in writing, to meet the low bid within 72 hours after notification that the bidder is a preferred bidder.

(b)  The procurement officer shall include the exact price submitted by the lowest bidder in the notice the procurement officer submits to the preferred bidder.

(c)  The procurement officer may not enter into a contract with any other bidder for the purchase until 72 hours have elapsed after notification to the preferred bidder.

(3) (a)  If there is more than one preferred bidder, the procurement officer shall award the contract to the willing preferred bidder who was the lowest preferred bidder originally.

(b)  If there were two or more equally low preferred bidders, the procurement officer shall comply with the rules adopted by the Procurement Policy Board to determine which bidder should be awarded the contract.

(4)  The provisions of this section do not apply if application of this section might jeopardize the receipt of federal funds.

