63G-6-405.   Preference for resident contractors.
(1)  As used in this section, "resident contractor" means a person,
partnership, corporation, or other business entity that:
(a)  either has its principal place of business in Utah or that employs
workers who are residents of this state when available; and
(b)  was transacting business on the date when bids for the public contract
were first solicited.
(2) (a)  When awarding contracts for construction, a public procurement unit
shall grant a resident contractor a reciprocal preference as against a
nonresident contractor from any state that gives or requires a preference to
contractors from that state.
(b)  The amount of the reciprocal preference shall be equal to the amount of
the preference applied by the state of the nonresident contractor.
(3) (a)  The bidder shall certify on the bid that the bidder qualifies as a
resident contractor.
(b)  The reciprocal preference is waived if that certification does not appear
on the bid.
(4) (a)  If the contractor submitting the lowest responsive and responsible
bid is not a resident contractor and has his principal place of business in
any state that gives or requires a preference to contractors from that state,
and if a resident contractor has also submitted a responsive and responsible
bid, and, with the benefit of the reciprocal preference, the resident
contractor's bid is equal to or less than the original lowest bid, the
procurement officer shall:
(i)  give notice to the resident contractor that the resident contractor
qualifies as a preferred resident contractor; and
(ii)  issue the contract to the resident contractor if the resident contractor
agrees, in writing, to meet the low bid within 72 hours after notification
that the resident contractor is a preferred resident contractor.
(b)  The procurement officer shall include the exact price submitted by the
lowest bidder in the notice the procurement officer submits to the preferred
resident contractor.
(c)  The procurement officer may not enter into a contract with any other
bidder for the construction until 72 hours have elapsed after notification to
the preferred resident contractor.
(5) (a)  If there is more than one preferred resident contractor, the
procurement officer shall award the contract to the willing preferred resident
contractor who was the lowest preferred resident contractor originally.
(b)  If there were two or more equally low preferred resident contractors, the
procurement officer shall comply with the rules adopted by the Procurement
Policy Board to determine which bidder should be awarded the contract.
(6)  The provisions of this section do not apply if application of this
section might jeopardize the receipt of federal funds.
