63G-6-425.   Purchase from community rehabilitation programs.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Board" means the Purchasing from Persons with Disabilities Advisory
Board created under this section.
(b)  "Central not-for-profit association" means a group of experts designated
by the board to do the following, under guidelines established by the board:
(i)  assist the board with its functions; and
(ii)  facilitate the implementation of board policies.
(c) (i)  "Community rehabilitation program" means a program that is operated
primarily for the purpose of the employment and training of persons with a
disability by a government agency or qualified nonprofit organization which is
an income tax exempt organization under 26 U.S.C. Sec. 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code.
(ii)  A community rehabilitation program:
(A)  maintains an employment ratio of at least 75% of the program employees
under the procurement contract in question have severe disabilities;
(B) (I)  complies with any applicable occupational health and safety standards
prescribed by the United States Department of Labor; or
(II)  is a supported employment program approved by the Utah State Office of
Rehabilitation;
(C)  has its principal place of business in Utah;
(D)  produces any good provided under this section in Utah; and
(E)  provides any service that is provided by individuals with a majority of
whom domiciled in Utah.
(d)  "Person with a disability" means a person with any disability as defined
by and covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C.
12102.
(2) (a)  There is created the Purchasing from Persons with Disabilities
Advisory Board within the Division of Purchasing and General Services of the
Department of Administrative Services.  The board shall be composed of the
following three members:
(i)  the director of the Division of Purchasing and General Services created
under Section 63A-2-101 or a designee;
(ii)  the executive director of the Utah State Office of Rehabilitation
created under Section 53A-24-103 or a designee; and
(iii)  a representative of the private business community who shall be
appointed to a three-year term by the governor with the advice and consent of
the Senate.
(b)  The board shall meet, as needed, to facilitate the procurement of goods
and services from community rehabilitation programs by a public procurement
unit under this chapter by:
(i)  identifying goods and services that are available from community
rehabilitation programs according to the requirements under Subsection (4);
(ii)  approving prices in accordance with Subsection (4)(c) for goods and
services that are identified under Subsection (2)(b)(i);
(iii)  developing, maintaining, and approving a preferred procurement contract
list of goods and services identified and priced under Subsections (2)(b)(i)
and (ii);
(iv)  reviewing bids received by a community rehabilitation program; and
(v)  awarding and renewing specified contracts for set contract times, without
competitive bidding, for the purchase of goods and services under Subsection
(4).
(c)  The provisions of Subsections (2)(b) and (4)(a) are an exception to the
procurement provisions under this chapter.
(3) (a)  The board may designate a central not-for-profit association, appoint
its members, and establish guidelines for its duties.
(b)  The designated central not-for-profit association serves at the pleasure
of the board and the central not-for-profit association or its individual
members may be removed by the board at any time by a majority vote of the
board.
(c)  Subject to the board guidelines and discretion, a designated central not-
for-profit association may be assigned to perform the following duties:
(i)  identify qualified community rehabilitation programs and the goods and
services that they provide or have the potential to provide;
(ii)  help ensure that goods and services are provided at reasonable quality
and delivery levels;
(iii)  recommend pricing for goods and services;
(iv)  reviewing bids and recommending the award of contracts under the board's
direction;
(v)  collecting and reporting program data to the board and to the division;
and
(vi)  other duties specified by the board.
(4)  Except as provided under Subsection (6), notwithstanding any provision in
this chapter to the contrary, each public procurement unit shall purchase
goods and services produced by a community rehabilitation program using the
preferred procurement contract list approved under Subsection (2)(b)(iii) if:
(a)  the good or service offered for sale by a community rehabilitation
program reasonably conforms to the needs and specifications of the public
procurement unit;
(b)  the community rehabilitation program can supply the good or service
within a reasonable time; and
(c)  the price of the good or service is reasonably competitive with the cost
of procuring the good or service from another source.
(5)  Each community rehabilitation program:
(a)  may submit a bid to the board at any time and not necessarily in response
to a request for bids; and
(b)  shall certify on any bid it submits to the board or to a public
procurement unit under this section that it is claiming a preference under
this section.
(6)  During a fiscal year, the requirement for a public procurement unit to
purchase goods and services produced by a community rehabilitation program
under the preferred procurement list under Subsection (4) does not apply if
the Division of Purchasing and General Services determines that the total
amount of procurement contracts with community rehabilitation programs has
reached $5 million for that fiscal year.
(7)  In the case of conflict between a purchase under this section and a
purchase under Section 63G-6-423, this section prevails.
