63G-6-806 (Superseded 05/01/13).   Decisions of protest officer to be in writing -- Effect of no writing.

(1)  After a timely protest is filed in accordance with Section 63G-6-801, the protest officer:

(a)  shall consider the protest; and

(b)  may hold a hearing on the protest.

(2) (a)  The protest officer may:

(i)  subpoena witnesses and compel their attendance at a protest hearing; or

(ii)  subpoena documents for production at a protest hearing.

(b)  The Rules of Evidence do not apply to a protest hearing.

(c)  The Procurement Policy Board shall make rules relating to intervention in a protest, including designating:

(i)  who may intervene; and

(ii)  the time and manner of intervention.

(d)  If a hearing on a protest is held under this section, the protest officer shall:

(i)  record the hearing;

(ii)  preserve all evidence presented at the hearing; and

(iii)  preserve all records and other evidence relied upon in reaching the written decision described in this section.

(e)  Regardless of whether a hearing on a protest is held under this section, the protest officer shall preserve all records and other evidence relied upon in reaching the written decision.

(f)  The records described in Subsections (2)(d) and (e) may not be destroyed until the decision, and any appeal of the decision, becomes final.

(g)  A protest officer who holds a hearing, considers a protest, or issues a written decision under this section does not waive the right to, at a later date, question or challenge the protest officer's jurisdiction to hold the hearing, consider the protest, or render the decision.

(3) A protest officer, or the protest officer's designee, shall promptly issue a written decision regarding any protest, debarment, suspension, or contract controversy if it is not settled by mutual agreement.  The decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the protestor, contractor, or prospective contractor of the right to judicial or administrative review as provided in this chapter.

(4)  A decision shall be effective until stayed or reversed on appeal, except to the extent provided in Section 63G-6-802.  A copy of the decision described in Subsection (1) shall be mailed, emailed, or otherwise furnished immediately to the protestor, prospective contractor, or contractor.  The decision shall be final and conclusive unless the protestor, prospective contractor, or contractor:

(a)  for a controversy described in Section 63G-6-805, commences an action in district court in accordance with Subsection 63G-6-815(5);

(b)  for a controversy related to a solicitation or the award of a contract, files an appeal under Section 63G-6-807; or

(c)  for a debarment or suspension, files an appeal under Section 63G-6-807.

(5)  If the protest officer does not issue the written decision regarding a protest or a contract controversy within 30 calendar days after the day on which a written request for a final decision is filed with the protest officer, or within a longer period as may be agreed upon by the parties, the protester, prospective contractor, or contractor may proceed as if an adverse decision had been received.

(6)  Except for a controversy described in Section 63G-6-805, a determination under this section by the protest officer regarding an issue of fact may not be overturned on appeal unless the decision is arbitrary and capricious or clearly erroneous.

