13-26-2.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1)  "Continuity plan" means a shipment, with the prior express consent of the
buyer, at regular intervals of similar special-interest products.  A
continuity plan is distinguished from a subscription arrangement by no binding
commitment period or purchase amount.
(2)  "Division" means the Division of Consumer Protection.
(3)  "Fictitious personal name" means a name other than an individual's true
name.  An "individual's true name" is the name taken at birth unless changed
by operation of law or by civil action.
(4)  "Material statement" or "material fact" means information that a person
of ordinary intelligence or prudence would consider important in deciding
whether or not to accept an offer extended through a telephone solicitation.
(5)  "Premium" means a gift, bonus, prize, award, certificate, or other
document by which a prospective purchaser is given a right, chance, or
privilege to purchase or receive goods or services with a stated or
represented value of $25 or more as an inducement to a prospective purchaser
to purchase other goods or services.
(6)  "Subscription arrangements," "standing order arrangements,"
"supplements," and "series arrangements" mean products or services provided,
with the prior express request or consent of the buyer, for a specified period
of time at a price dependent on the duration of service and to complement an
initial purchase.
(7) (a)  "Telephone solicitation," "sale," "selling," or "solicitation of
sale" means:
(i)  a sale or solicitation of goods or services in which:
(A) (I)  the seller solicits the sale over the telephone;
(II)  the purchaser's agreement to purchase is made over the telephone; and
(III)  the purchaser, over the telephone, pays for or agrees to commit to
payment for goods or services prior to or upon receipt by the purchaser of the
goods or services;
(B)  the solicitor, not exempt under Section 13-26-4, induces a prospective
purchaser over the telephone, to make and keep an appointment that directly
results in the purchase of goods or services by the purchaser that would not
have occurred without the telephone solicitation and inducement by the
solicitor;
(C)  the seller offers or promises a premium to a prospective purchaser if:
(I)  the seller induces the prospective purchaser to initiate a telephone
contact with the telephone soliciting business; and
(II)  the resulting solicitation meets the requirements of Subsection (7)(a);
or
(D)  the solicitor solicits a charitable donation involving the exchange of
any premium, prize, gift, ticket, subscription, or other benefit in connection
with any appeal made for a charitable purpose by an organization that is not
otherwise exempt under Subsection 13-26-4(2)(b)(iv); or
(ii)  a telephone solicitation as defined in Section 13-25a-102.
(b)  A solicitation of sale or telephone solicitation is considered complete
when made, whether or not the person receiving the solicitation agrees to the
sale or to make a charitable donation.
(8)  "Telephone soliciting business" means a sole proprietorship, partnership,
limited liability company, corporation, or other association of individuals
engaged in a common effort to conduct telephone solicitations.
(9)  "Telephone solicitor" or "solicitor" means a person, partnership, limited
liability company, corporation, or other entity that:
(a)  makes a telephone solicitation; or
(b)  causes a telephone solicitation to be made.
