17-50-105.   Disputed boundaries.

(1)  As used in this section, "independent surveyor" means the surveyor whose position is established within the Automated Geographic Reference Center under Subsection 63F-1-506(3).

(2) (a)  If a dispute or uncertainty arises as to the true location of a county boundary as described in the official records maintained by the office of the lieutenant governor, the surveyors of each county whose boundary is the subject of the dispute or uncertainty may determine the true location.

(b)  If agreement is reached under Subsection (2)(a), the county surveyors shall provide notice, accompanied by a map, to the lieutenant governor showing the true location of the county boundary.

(3) (a)  If the county surveyors fail to agree on or otherwise fail to establish the true location of the county boundary, the county executive of either or both of the affected counties shall engage the services of the independent surveyor.

(b)  After being engaged under Subsection (3)(a), the independent surveyor shall notify the surveyor of each county whose boundary is the subject of the dispute or uncertainty of the procedure the independent surveyor will use to determine the true location of the boundary.

(c)  With the assistance of each surveyor who chooses to participate, the independent surveyor shall determine permanently the true location of the boundary by marking surveys and erecting suitable monuments to designate the boundary.

(d)  Each boundary established under this Subsection (3) shall be considered permanent until superseded by legislative enactment.

(e)  The independent surveyor shall provide notice, accompanied by a map, to the lieutenant governor showing the true location of the county boundary.

(4)  Nothing in this section may be construed to give the county surveyors or independent surveyor any authority other than to erect suitable monuments to designate county boundaries as they are described in the official records maintained by the office of the lieutenant governor.



Amended by Chapter 350, 2009 General Session

