63C-7-103.   Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1)  "Board" means the Utah Communications Agency Network Board created in
Section 63C-7-201.
(2)  "Bonds" means bonds, notes, certificates, debentures, contracts, lease
purchase agreements, or other evidences of indebtedness or borrowing issued or
incurred by the Utah Communications Agency Network pursuant to this chapter.
(3)  "Communications network" means a regional or statewide public safety
governmental communications network and related facilities, including real
property, improvements, and equipment necessary for the acquisition,
construction, and operation of the services and facilities.
(4)  "Effective date" means the first date after which the Utah Communications
Agency Network is officially created and shall be the first date after which:
(a)  at least 10 public agencies have submitted to the Utah Communications
Agency Network office the membership resolutions required to become a member;
and
(b)  the governor has appointed the four state representatives to the
executive committee.
(5)  "Executive Committee" means the administrative body of the Utah
Communications Agency Network created in Section 63C-7-205.
(6)  "Lease" means any lease, lease purchase, sublease, operating, management,
or similar agreement.
(7)  "Member" means a public agency which:
(a)  adopts a membership resolution to be included within the Utah
Communications Agency Network; and
(b)  submits an originally executed copy of an authorizing resolution to the
Utah Communications Agency Network office.
(8)  "Member representative" means a person or that person’s designee
appointed by the governing body of each member.
(9)  "Public agency" means any political subdivision of the state, including
cities, towns, counties, school districts, local districts, and special
service districts, dispatched by a public safety answering point.
(10)  "Public safety answering point" means an organization, entity, or
combination of entities which have joined together to form a central answering
point for the receipt, management, and dissemination to the proper responding
agency, of emergency and nonemergency communications, including 911 calls,
police, fire, emergency medical, transportation, parks, wildlife, corrections,
and any other governmental communications.
(11)  "State" means the state of Utah.
(12)  "State representative" means:
(a)  the four appointees of the governor or their designees; and
(b)  the Utah State Treasurer or his designee.
