63C-7-205.   Executive committee established -- Terms -- Vacancies.

(1)  The executive committee shall consist of the following 21 individuals:

(a)  15 member representatives elected by the board at its annual meetings; and

(b)  six state representatives.

(2) (a) (i)  Five of the state representatives shall be appointed by the governor, with two of the positions having an initial term of two years, two having an initial term of three years, and one having an initial term of four years.

(ii)  Successor state representatives shall each serve for a term of four years.

(iii)  The five governor-appointed state representatives shall consist of:

(A)  the executive director of the Utah Department of Transportation or the director's designee;

(B)  the commissioner of public safety or the commissioner's designee;

(C)  the executive director of the Department of Natural Resources or the director's designee;

(D)  the executive director of the Department of Corrections or the director's designee; and

(E)  the chief information officer or the officer's designee.

(b)  The sixth state representative shall be the Utah State Treasurer or the treasurer's designee.

(c)  A vacancy on the executive committee for a state representative shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the governor.

(3) (a) (i)  One-half of the positions for member representatives elected by the board shall have an initial term of two years and one-half of the positions shall have an initial term of four years.

(ii)  Successor member representatives of the executive committee shall each serve for a term of four years, so that the term of office for six of the member representatives expires every two years.

(b)  The member representatives of the executive committee shall be removable, with or without cause, by a majority vote of the board.  A vacancy on the executive committee for a member representative shall be filled for the unexpired term by a majority of the remaining member representatives of the executive committee.

(4)  The executive committee shall elect annually one of its members as chair.

(5)  The executive committee shall meet on an as-needed basis and as provided in the bylaws.

(6)  The executive committee shall also elect a vice chair, secretary, and treasurer to perform those functions provided in the bylaws.

(a)  The vice chair shall be a member of the executive committee.

(b)  The secretary and treasurer need not be members of the executive committee, but shall not have voting powers if they are not members of the executive committee.

(c)  The offices of chair, vice chair, secretary, and treasurer shall be held by separate individuals.

(7)  Each member representative and state representative shall have one vote, including the chair, at all meetings of the executive committee.

(8)  Twelve members of the executive committee constitute a quorum.  A vote of a majority of the quorum at any meeting of the executive committee is necessary to take action on behalf of the executive committee.



Amended by Chapter 197, 2013 General Session

