77-7-5.   Issuance of warrant -- Time and place arrests may be made --
Contents of warrant -- Responsibility for transporting prisoners -- Court
clerk to dispense restitution for transportation.
(1)  A magistrate may issue a warrant for arrest upon finding probable cause
to believe that the person to be arrested has committed a public offense.  If
the offense charged is:
(a)  a felony, the arrest upon a warrant may be made at any time of the day or
night; or
(b)  a misdemeanor, the arrest upon a warrant can be made at night only if:
(i)  the magistrate has endorsed authorization to do so on the warrant;
(ii)  the person to be arrested is upon a public highway, in a public place,
or in a place open to or accessible to the public; or
(iii)  the person to be arrested is encountered by a peace officer in the
regular course of that peace officer's investigation of a criminal offense
unrelated to the misdemeanor warrant for arrest.
(2)  For the purpose of Subsection (1):
(a)  daytime hours are the hours of 6 a.m. to 10 p.m.; and
(b)  nighttime hours are the hours after 10 p.m. and before 6 a.m.
(3) (a)  If the magistrate determines that the accused must appear in court,
the magistrate shall include in the arrest warrant the name of the law
enforcement agency in the county or municipality with jurisdiction over the
offense charged.
(b) (i)  The law enforcement agency identified by the magistrate under
Subsection (3)(a) is responsible for providing inter-county transportation of
the defendant, if necessary, from the arresting law enforcement agency to the
court site.
(ii)  The law enforcement agency named on the warrant may contract with
another law enforcement agency to have a defendant transported.
(c) (i)  The law enforcement agency identified by the magistrate under
Subsection (3)(a) as responsible for transporting the defendant shall provide
to the court clerk of the court in which the defendant is tried, an affidavit
stating that the defendant was transported, indicating the law enforcement
agency responsible for the transportation, and stating the number of miles the
defendant was transported.
(ii)  The court clerk shall account for restitution paid under Subsection
76-3-201(5) for governmental transportation expenses and dispense restitution
money collected by the court to the law enforcement agency responsible for the
transportation of a convicted defendant.
