54-7-13.5.   Energy balancing accounts.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Base rates" is as defined in Subsection 54-7-12(1).
(b)  "Energy balancing account" means an electrical corporation account for
some or all components of the electrical corporation's incurred actual power
costs, including:
(i) (A)  fuel;
(B)  purchased power; and
(C)  wheeling expenses; and
(ii)  the sum of the power costs described in Subsection (1)(b)(i) less
wholesale revenues.
(c)  "Gas balancing account" means a gas corporation account to recover on a
dollar-for-dollar basis, purchased gas costs, and gas cost-related expenses.
(2) (a)  The commission may authorize an electrical corporation to establish
an energy balancing account.
(b)  An energy balancing account shall become effective upon a commission
finding that the energy balancing account is:
(i)  in the public interest;
(ii)  for prudently-incurred costs; and
(iii)  implemented at the conclusion of a general rate case.
(c)  An electrical corporation:
(i)  may, with approval from the commission, recover costs under this section
through:
(A)  base rates;
(B)  contract rates;
(C)  surcredits; or
(D)  surcharges; and
(ii)  shall file a reconciliation of the energy balancing account with the
commission at least annually with actual costs and revenues incurred by the
electrical corporation.
(d)  An energy balancing account may not alter:
(i)  the standard for cost recovery; or
(ii)  the electrical corporation's burden of proof.
(e)  The collection method described in Subsection (2)(c)(i) shall:
(i)  apply to the appropriate billing components in base rates; and
(ii)  be incorporated into base rates in an appropriate commission proceeding.
(f)  The collection of costs related to an energy balancing account from
customers paying contract rates shall be governed by the terms of the
contract.
(g)  Revenues collected in excess of prudently incurred actual costs shall:
(i)  be refunded as a bill surcredit to an electrical corporation's customers
over a period specified by the commission; and
(ii)  include a carrying charge.
(h)  Prudently incurred actual costs in excess of revenues collected shall:
(i)  be recovered as a bill surcharge over a period to be specified by the
commission; and
(ii)  include a carrying charge.
(i)  The carrying charge applied to the balance in an energy balancing account
shall be:
(i)  determined by the commission; and
(ii)  symmetrical for over or under collections.
(3) (a)  The commission may:
(i)  establish a gas balancing account for a gas corporation; and
(ii)  set forth procedures for a gas corporation's gas balancing account in
the gas corporation's commission-approved tariff.
(b)  A gas balancing account may not alter:
(i)  the standard of cost recovery; or
(ii)  the gas corporation's burden of proof.
(4) (a)  All allowed costs and revenues associated with an energy balancing
account or gas balancing account shall remain in the respective balancing
account until charged or refunded to customers.
(b)  The balance of an energy balancing account or gas balancing account may
not be:
(i)  transferred by the electrical corporation or gas corporation; or
(ii)  used by the commission to impute earnings or losses to the electrical
corporation or gas corporation.
(c)  An energy balancing account or gas balancing account that is formed and
maintained in accordance with this section does not constitute impermissible
retroactive ratemaking or single-issue ratemaking.
(5)  This section does not create a presumption for or against approval of an
energy balancing account.
