7-9-36.   Dissolution.
(1)  A credit union may be dissolved upon a majority vote of the entire
membership.
(2)  A copy of a notice of a special meeting to consider the matter shall be
mailed to the members of the credit union at least ten days before the date of
the meeting.
(3)  Any member not present at the meeting may within the following 20 days
vote for or against dissolution by signing a statement approved by the
commissioner.  A vote cast in this manner  has the same force and effect as if
cast at the meeting.  A member not voting within the 20-day period is
considered to be in favor of the dissolution.
(4)  The officers of the credit union may appoint a liquidating agent, subject
to the approval of the commissioner, who has the right to exercise all the
powers of the dissolved credit union to wind up  its affairs.  If the
liquidating agent is other than the Utah League of Credit Unions or the
National Credit Union Administration, the liquidator shall provide a bond or
other security, as required by the commissioner, for the faithful discharge of
duties in connection with the liquidation, including accounting for all money
collected.
(5)  Upon the vote required under this section, a certificate of dissolution,
signed by the chair of the board and the secretary, shall be filed with the
commissioner and shall state the vote cast in favor of dissolution, the
proposed date upon which the credit union will cease to do business, the names
and addresses of the directors and officers of the credit union and the name
and address of the liquidating agent appointed by the officers of the credit
union.  The commissioner shall approve the dissolution unless he finds that
the procedures set forth in this section have not been properly followed.
(6)  Upon approval, the credit union shall cease to do business except for the
purpose of discharging its debts, collecting and distributing assets, and
doing all acts required to adjust, wind up, and dissolve its business and
affairs.  It may sue and be sued for the purpose of enforcing debts or
obligations until its affairs are fully adjusted.
(7)  If the board or the liquidating agent determines that all assets from
which a reasonable return could be expected have been liquidated and
distributed, it shall execute a certificate of dissolution in a form approved
by the commissioner and file it with the department and the Division of
Corporations and Commercial Code.  After the certificate has been filed, the
credit union is dissolved.
