7-9-43.   Board of Credit Union Advisors.
There is created a Board of Credit Union Advisors of five members to be
appointed by the governor.
(1)  Members of the board shall be individuals who are familiar with and
associated in the field of credit unions.
(2)  At least three of the members shall be persons who have had three or more
years of experience as a credit union officer and shall be selected from a
list submitted to the governor by the Utah League of Credit Unions.
(3)  The board shall meet quarterly.
(4)  A chair of the advisory board shall be chosen each year from the
membership of the advisory board by a majority of the members present at the
board's first meeting each year.
(5) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (b), as terms of current board
members expire, the governor shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a four-year term.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (a), the governor shall,
at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms to
ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so that approximately
half of the board is appointed every two years.
(6)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the replacement
shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(7)  All members shall serve until their successors are appointed and
qualified.
(8) (a)  Members shall receive no compensation or benefits for their services,
but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in the performance of the
member’s official duties at the rates established by the Division of Finance
under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(b)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(9)  Meetings of the advisory board shall be held on the call of the chair.  A
majority of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum.
(10)  The Board of Credit Union Advisors has the duty to advise the governor
and commissioner on problems relating to credit unions and to foster the
interest and cooperation of credit unions in the improvement of their services
to the people of the state of Utah.
