7-9-44.   Corporate central credit union.
(1)  A credit union in which all credit unions, the Utah  League of Credit
Unions and its affiliates are eligible for membership may be established in
this state and shall be known as a corporate central credit union.
(2)  The corporate central credit union has all the powers and rights granted
credit unions established under this chapter.  The maximum loan by a corporate
central credit union shall be established in the corporate central credit
union bylaws.
(3)  Beginning January 1, 1984, and at the end of each dividend period, the
corporate central credit union, in lieu of a regular reserve as provided in
Section 7-9-30, shall transfer 2% of its gross earnings to its central reserve
until the reserve equals 1-1/2% of total assets.  If the central reserve falls
below 1-1/2% of total assets, it shall be replenished by regular transfers of
2% of gross earnings or by contributions, whichever is less, in such amounts
as are needed to maintain the central reserve at 1-1/2% of total assets.
(4)  Charges may be made against the central reserve to the extent permitted
against a regular reserve.  No other charges may be made against the central
reserve, except as authorized in writing by the commissioner.
(5)  The purposes of the corporate central credit union are:
(a)  to accumulate and prudently manage the liquidity of its member credit
unions through interlending and investment services;
(b)  to act as an intermediary for credit union funds between members, other
corporate credit unions, other financial institutions, and government
agencies;
(c)  to obtain liquid funds from other credit union organizations, financial
intermediaries, and other sources;
(d)  to foster and promote, in cooperation with other state, regional, and
national corporate credit unions and credit union organizations or
associations, the economic security, growth, and development of member credit
unions; and
(e)  to perform other financial services of benefit to its members authorized
by the commissioner.
(6)  The corporate central credit union is exempt from supervision fees but is
subject to examination fees.
