31A-28-107.   Board of directors.
(1) (a)  The board of directors of the association shall consist of:
(i)  at least five but not more than nine member insurers who:
(A)  subject to Subsection (1)(e), serve terms as established in the plan of
operation; and
(B)  are selected by member insurers, subject to the approval of the
commissioner; and
(ii)  two public representatives appointed by the commissioner.
(b) (i)  The commissioner shall make the appointment of a public
representative coincide with the association's annual meeting at which the
association's board of directors is elected.
(ii)  A public representative may not be:
(A)  an officer, director, or employee of an insurer; or
(B)  a person engaged in the business of insurance.
(iii)  Subject to Subsection (1)(e), a public representative shall serve a
term of three years.
(c)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership of the board of directors for any
reason:
(i)  if the vacancy is of a member insurer, a replacement may be elected for
the unexpired term by a majority vote of the remaining board members, subject
to the approval of the commissioner; and
(ii)  if the vacancy is of a public representative, the commissioner shall
appoint a replacement for the unexpired term.
(d)  In approving a selection or in appointing a member to the board of
directors, the commissioner shall consider, among other things, whether all
member insurers are fairly represented.
(e)  Notwithstanding Subsections (1)(a) and (b), the commissioner shall, at
the time of election, reelection, appointment, or reappointment adjust the
length of terms to ensure that the terms of board members are staggered so
that approximately half of the board of directors is selected during any two-
year period.
(2) (a)  A member of the board of directors may be reimbursed from the assets
of the association for expenses incurred by the member as a member of the
board of directors.
(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (2)(a), a member of the board of
directors may not be compensated by the association for the member's services.
