31A-28-112.   Prevention of insolvencies.
(1)  The purpose of this section is to aid in the detection and prevention of
insurer insolvencies or impairments.
(2) The commissioner shall:
(a) notify the commissioner of every state within 30 days following the action
taken or the date the action occurs, when the commissioner takes the following
actions against a member insurer:
(i)  revokes its license;
(ii)  suspends its license; or
(iii)  makes a formal order that the member insurer:
(A)  restrict its premium writing;
(B)  obtain additional contributions to surplus;
(C)  withdraw from the state;
(D)  reinsure all or any part of its business; or
(E)  increase capital, surplus, or any other account for the security of
policy owners or creditors;
(b)  report to the board of directors when the commissioner has:
(i)  taken any of the actions set forth in Subsection (2)(a); or
(ii)  received a report from any other commissioner indicating that an action
described in Subsection (2)(a) has been taken in another state;
(c)  include in the report to the board of directors required by Subsection
(2)(b):
(i)  all significant details of the action taken; or
(ii)  the report received from another commissioner;
(d) promptly report to the board of directors when the commissioner has
reasonable cause to believe from an examination of any member insurer, whether
completed or in process, that the insurer may be an impaired or insolvent
insurer; and
(e) furnish to the board of directors the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners Insurance Regulatory Information System ratios and listings of
companies not included in the ratios developed by the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners.
(3) (a)  The board of directors may use the information contained in the
ratios and listings described in Subsection (2)(e) in carrying out the board
of directors' duties and responsibilities under this section.
(b)  The report and the information contained in the ratios and listings shall
be kept confidential by the board of directors until the commissioner or other
lawful authority publishes the information.
(4)  The commissioner may seek the advice and recommendations of the board of
directors concerning any matter affecting the commissioner's duties and
responsibilities regarding the financial condition of member insurers and
companies seeking admission to transact insurance business in this state.
(5) (a)  The board of directors may make reports and recommendations to the
commissioner upon any matter germane to:
(i)  the solvency, liquidation, rehabilitation, or conservation of any member
insurer; or
(ii)  the solvency of any company seeking to do an insurance business in this
state.
(b)  The reports and recommendations of the board of directors described in
Subsection (5)(a) may not be considered public documents.
(6)  The board of directors may, upon majority vote, notify the commissioner
of any information indicating a member insurer may be an impaired or insolvent
insurer.
(7)  The board of directors may make recommendations to the commissioner for
the detection and prevention of insurer insolvencies.
(8) (a)  At the conclusion of any insurer insolvency in which the association
was obligated to pay covered claims, the board of directors shall prepare a
report to the commissioner containing the information the board of directors
has in its possession bearing on the history and causes of the insolvency.
(b)  In preparing a report on the history and causes of insolvency of a
particular insurer, the board of directors may cooperate with:
(i)  the board of directors of a guaranty association in another state; or
(ii)  an organization described in Subsection 31A-28-108(16).
(c)  The board of directors may adopt by reference any report prepared by:
(i)  a guaranty association in another state; or
(ii)  an organization described in Subsection 31A-28-108(16).
