31A-28-114.   Miscellaneous provisions.
(1)  Nothing in this part shall be construed to reduce the liability for
unpaid assessments of the insureds of an impaired or insolvent insurer
operating under a plan with assessment liability.
(2) (a)  Records shall be kept of all meetings of the board of directors to
discuss the activities of the association in carrying out its powers and
duties under Section 31A-28-108.
(b)  Records of the association with respect to an impaired or insolvent
insurer may not be disclosed before the earlier of:
(i)  the termination of a liquidation, rehabilitation, or conservation
proceeding involving the impaired or insolvent insurer;
(ii)  the termination of the impairment or insolvency of the insurer; or
(iii)  upon the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(c)  Nothing in this Subsection (2) shall limit the duty of the association to
render a report of its activities under Section 31A-28-115.
(3) (a)  For the purpose of carrying out its obligations under this part, the
association shall be considered to be a creditor of an impaired or insolvent
insurer to the extent of assets attributable to covered policies reduced by
any amounts to which the association is entitled as subrogee pursuant to
Subsection 31A-28-108(14).
(b)  Assets of the impaired or insolvent insurer attributable to covered
policies shall be used to continue all covered policies and pay all
contractual obligations of the impaired or insolvent insurer as required by
this part.
(c)  As used in this Subsection (3), assets attributable to covered policies
are that proportion of the assets which the reserves that should have been
established for covered policies bear to the reserves that should have been
established for all policies of insurance written by the impaired or insolvent
insurer.
(4) (a)  As a creditor of the impaired or insolvent insurer under Subsection
(3) and consistent with Section 31A-27a-701, the association and any other
similar association are entitled to receive a disbursement of assets out of
the marshaled assets, from time to time as the assets become available to
reimburse the association and any other similar association.
(b)  If, within 120 days of a final determination of insolvency of an insurer
by the receivership court, the liquidator has not made an application to the
court for the approval of a proposal to disburse assets out of marshaled
assets to all guaranty associations having obligations because of the
insolvency, the association is entitled to make application to the
receivership court for approval of the association's proposal for disbursement
of these assets.
(5) (a)  Prior to the termination of any liquidation, rehabilitation, or
conservation proceeding, the court may take into consideration the
contributions of the respective parties, including:
(i)  the association;
(ii)  the shareholders;
(iii)  policyowners of the insolvent insurer; and
(iv)  any other party with a bona fide interest in making an equitable
distribution of the ownership rights of the insolvent insurer.
(b)  In making a determination under Subsection (5)(a), the court shall
consider the welfare of the policyholders of the continuing or successor
insurer.
(c)  A distribution to any stockholder of an impaired or insolvent insurer may
not be made until and unless the total amount of valid claims of the
association with interest has been fully recovered by the association for
funds expended in carrying out its powers and duties under Section 31A-28-108
with respect to the insurer.
(6) (a)  If an order for liquidation or rehabilitation of an insurer domiciled
in this state has been entered, the receiver appointed under the order shall
have a right to recover on behalf of the insurer, from any affiliate that
controlled the insurer, the amount of distributions, other than stock
dividends paid by the insurer on its capital stock, made at any time during
the five years preceding the petition for liquidation or rehabilitation
subject to the limitations of Subsections (6)(b) through (d).
(b)  A distribution described in Subsection (6)(a) may not be recovered if the
insurer shows that:
(i)  when paid the distribution was lawful and reasonable; and
(ii)  the insurer did not know and could not reasonably have known that the
distribution might adversely affect the ability of the insurer to fulfill its
contractual obligations.
(c) (i)  A person that was an affiliate that controlled the insurer at the
time the distributions were paid shall be liable up to the amount of
distributions received.
(ii)  A person that was an affiliate that controlled the insurer at the time
the distributions were declared shall be liable up to the amount of
distributions that would have been received if they had been paid immediately.
(iii)  If two or more persons are liable with respect to the same
distributions, they shall be jointly and severally liable.
(d)  The maximum amount recoverable under this Subsection (6) shall be the
amount needed in excess of all other available assets of the insolvent insurer
to pay the contractual obligations of the insolvent insurer.
(e)  If any person liable under Subsection (6)(c) is insolvent, all of its
affiliates that controlled it at the time the distribution was paid shall be
jointly and severally liable for any resulting deficiency in the amount
recovered from the insolvent affiliate.
