31A-28-119.   Prohibited advertisement of the association -- Notice to
policyholders.
(1) (a) Except as provided in Subsection (1)(b), a person, including an
insurer, agent, or affiliate of an insurer may not make, publish, disseminate,
circulate, or place before the public, or cause directly or indirectly to be
made, published, disseminated, circulated, or placed before the public, in any
newspaper, magazine, or other publication, or in the form of a notice,
circular, pamphlet, letter, or poster, or over any radio station or television
station, or in any other way, any advertisement, announcement, or statement
written or oral, which uses the existence of the association for the purpose
of sales, solicitation, or inducement to purchase any form of insurance.
(b)  Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(a), this section does not apply to:
(i)  the association; or
(ii)  any other entity that does not sell or solicit insurance.
(2) (a)  Prior to January 1, 2002, the association shall:
(i)  prepare a summary document describing the general purposes and current
limitations of this part that complies with Subsection (3); and
(ii)  submit the summary document described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to the
commissioner for approval.
(b)  Sixty days after the day on which the commissioner approves the summary
document described in Subsection (2)(a), an insurer may not deliver a policy
or contract to a policy or contract owner unless the summary document is also
delivered to the policy or contract owner prior to, or at the time of,
delivery of the policy or contract.
(c)  The summary document shall be available upon request by a policy owner.
(d)  The distribution, delivery, or contents or interpretation of the summary
document does not guarantee that:
(i)  the policy or the contract is covered in the event of the impairment or
insolvency of a member insurer; or
(ii)  the owner of the policy or contract is covered in the event of the
impairment or insolvency of a member insurer.
(e)  The summary document shall be revised by the association as amendments to
this part may require.
(f)  Failure to receive the summary document as required in Subsection (2)(b)
does not give the policyholder, contract holder, certificate holder, or
insured any greater rights than those stated in this part.
(3) (a)  The summary document prepared under Subsection (2) shall contain a
clear and conspicuous disclaimer on its face.
(b)  The commissioner shall, by rule, establish the form and content of the
disclaimer described in Subsection (3)(a), except that the disclaimer shall:
(i)  state the name and address of:
(A)  the association; and
(B)  the insurance department;
(ii)  prominently warn the policy or contract owner that:
(A)  the association may not cover the policy; or
(B)  if coverage is available, it is:
(I)  subject to substantial limitations and exclusions; and
(II)  conditioned on continued residence in the state;
(iii)  state the types of policies for which the association will provide
coverage;
(iv)  state that the insurer and its agents are prohibited by law from using
the existence of the association for the purpose of sales, solicitation, or
inducement to purchase any form of insurance;
(v)  state that the policy or contract owner should not rely on coverage under
the association when selecting an insurer;
(vi)  explain the rights available and procedures for filing a complaint to
allege a violation of this part; and
(vii)  provide other information as directed by the commissioner including
sources for information about the financial condition of insurers provided
that the information:
(A)  is not proprietary; and
(B)  is subject to disclosure under public records laws.
(4) (a)  An insurer or agent may not deliver a policy or contract described in
Subsection 31A-28-103(2)(a) and wholly excluded under Subsection
31A-28-103(2)(b)(i) from coverage under this part unless the insurer or agent,
prior to or at the time of delivery, gives the policy or contract holder a
separate written notice that clearly and conspicuously discloses that the
policy or contract is not covered by the association.
(b)  The commissioner shall by rule specify the form and content of the notice
required by Subsection (4)(a).
(5)  A member insurer shall retain evidence of compliance with Subsection (2)
for the later of:
(a)  three years; or
(b)  until the conclusion of the next market conduct examination by the
department of insurance where the member insurer is domiciled.
