31A-28-209.   Plan of operation.

(1) (a)  The association shall submit to the commissioner a plan of operation and any amendments necessary or suitable to assure the fair, reasonable, and equitable administration of the association.

(b)  The plan of operation and amendments described in Subsection (1)(a) are effective upon approval in writing by the commissioner.

(c)  Any amendments made under this section after July 1, 1986, shall be made within 180 days of the changed circumstance.

(2)  The plan of operation shall continue in force until:

(a)  modified by the commissioner; or

(b)  superseded by a plan:

(i)  submitted by the association; and

(ii)  approved by the commissioner.

(3)  All member insurers shall comply with the plan of operation.

(4)  The plan of operation shall, in addition to requirements enumerated elsewhere in this part:

(a)  establish procedures for handling the assets of the association;

(b)  establish the amount and method of reimbursing members of the board of directors under Section 31A-28-206;

(c)  establish regular places and times for meetings of the board of directors;

(d)  establish procedures for records to be kept of all financial transactions of the association, the association's agents, and the board of directors;

(e)  establish the procedures on how selections for the board of directors shall be made and submitted to the commissioner;

(f)  establish a procedure for the disposition of dividends or distributions from the estate of the insolvent insurer;

(g)  establish any additional procedures for assessments under Section 31A-28-208; and

(h)  contain any additional provisions that are necessary or proper for the execution of the powers and duties of the association.

(5) (a)  The plan of operation may provide that any or all of the powers and duties of the association, except those under Sections 31A-28-207 and 31A-28-208, are delegated to one of the following that performs functions similar to the association:

(i)  a corporation;

(ii)  an association; or

(iii)  organization other than one described in Subsections (5)(a)(i) and (ii).

(b)  A corporation, association, or organization described in Subsection (5)(a) shall:

(i)  be reimbursed for any payments made on behalf of the association; and

(ii)  be paid for its performance of any function of the association.

(c)  A delegation under this Subsection (5) takes effect only with the approval of:

(i)  the board of directors; and

(ii)  the commissioner.



Amended by Chapter 363, 2001 General Session

