13-42-123.   Fees and other charges.
(1)  A provider may not impose directly or indirectly a fee or other charge on
an individual or receive money from or on behalf of an individual for debt-
management services except as permitted by this section.
(2)  A provider may not impose charges or receive payment for debt-management
services until the provider and the individual have signed an agreement that
complies with Sections 13-42-119 and 13-42-128.
(3)  If an individual assents to an agreement, a provider may not impose a fee
or other charge for educational or counseling services, or the like, except as
otherwise provided in this Subsection (3) and Subsection 13-42-128(4).  The
administrator may authorize a provider to charge a fee based on the nature and
extent of the educational or counseling services furnished by the provider.
(4)  Subject to adjustment of dollar amounts pursuant to Subsection
13-42-132(6), the following rules apply:
(a)  If an individual assents to a plan that contemplates that creditors will
reduce finance charges or fees for late payment, default, or delinquency, the
provider may charge:
(i)  a fee not exceeding $50 for consultation, obtaining a credit report,
setting up an account, and the like; and
(ii)  a monthly service fee, not to exceed $10 times the number of accounts
remaining in a plan at the time the fee is assessed, but not more than $50 in
any month.
(b)  If an individual assents to an agreement that contemplates that creditors
will settle debts for less than the principal amount of the debt, a provider
may charge:
(i)  subject to Subsection 13-42-119(4), a fee for consultation, obtaining a
credit report, setting up an account, and the like, in an amount not exceeding
the lesser of $400 and 4% of the debt in the plan at the inception of the
plan; and
(ii)  a monthly service fee, not to exceed $10 times the number of accounts
remaining in a plan at the time the fee is assessed, but not more than $50 in
any month.
(c)  A provider may not impose or receive fees under both Subsections (4)(a)
and (b).
(d)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsection 13-42-128(4), if an individual
does not assent to an agreement, a provider may receive for educational and
counseling services it provides to the individual a fee not exceeding $100 or,
with the approval of the administrator, a larger fee.  The administrator may
approve a fee larger than $100 if the nature and extent of the educational and
counseling services warrant the larger fee.
(5)  If, before the expiration of 90 days after the completion or termination
of educational or counseling services, an individual assents to an agreement,
the provider shall refund to the individual any fee paid pursuant to
Subsection (4)(d).
(6) (a)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsections (3) and (4), if an
agreement contemplates that creditors will settle an individual's debts for
less than the principal amount of the debt, compensation for services in
connection with settling a debt may not exceed one of the following applicable
settlement fee limits in Subsection (6)(b) or (c), the terms of which shall be
clearly disclosed in the agreement.
(b) (i)  With respect to agreements where a flat settlement fee is charged
based on the overall amount of included debt, total aggregate fees charged may
not exceed 17% of the principal amount of debt included in the agreement,
including any fees charged under Subsections (4)(b)(i) and (ii).
(ii)  The flat settlement fee authorized under this Subsection (6)(b) shall be
assessed in equal monthly payments over no less than half of the length of the
plan, as estimated at the plan's inception, unless:
(A)  payment is voluntarily accelerated by the individual in a separate
record; and
(B)  at least half of the principal amount of overall debt included in the
agreement at its inception has been settled.
(c) (i)  With respect to agreements where fees are calculated as a percentage
of the amount saved by an individual, a settlement fee may not exceed 30% of
the excess of the outstanding amount of each debt over the amount actually
paid to the creditor, as calculated at the time of settlement.
(ii)  Settlement fees authorized under this Subsection (6)(c):
(A)  may be collected only as debts are settled; and
(B)  the total aggregate amount of fees charged to any individual under this
chapter, including fees charged under Subsections (4)(b)(i) and (ii), may not
exceed 20% of the principal amount of debt included in the agreement at the
agreement's inception.
(d)  A provider may not impose or receive fees under both Subsections (6)(b)
and (c).
(7)  Subject to adjustment of the dollar amount pursuant to Subsection
13-42-132(6), if a payment to a provider by an individual under this chapter
is dishonored, a provider may impose a reasonable charge on the individual,
not to exceed the lesser of $25 and the amount permitted by law other than
this chapter.
