13-42-132.   Powers of administrator.
(1)  The administrator may act on its own initiative or in response to
complaints and may receive complaints, take action to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, refer cases to the attorney general, and seek or
provide remedies as provided in this chapter.
(2)  The administrator may investigate and examine, in this state or
elsewhere, by subpoena or otherwise, the activities, books, accounts, and
records of a person that provides or offers to provide debt-management
services, or a person to which a provider has delegated its obligations under
an agreement or this chapter, to determine compliance with this chapter.
Information that identifies individuals who have agreements with the provider
shall not be disclosed to the public.  In connection with the investigation,
the administrator may:
(a)  charge the person the reasonable expenses necessarily incurred to conduct
the examination;
(b)  require or permit a person to file a statement under oath as to all the
facts and circumstances of a matter to be investigated; and
(c)  seek a court order authorizing seizure from a bank at which the person
maintains a trust account required by Section 13-42-122, any or all money,
books, records, accounts, and other property of the provider that is in the
control of the bank and relates to individuals who reside in this state.
(3)  The administrator may adopt rules to implement the provisions of this
chapter in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
Rulemaking Act.
(4)  The administrator may enter into cooperative arrangements with any other
federal or state agency having authority over providers and may exchange with
any of those agencies information about a provider, including information
obtained during an examination of the provider.
(5)  The administrator shall establish fees in accordance with Section
63J-1-504 to be paid by providers for the expense of administering this
chapter.
(6)  The administrator, by rule, shall adopt dollar amounts instead of those
specified in Sections 13-42-102, 13-42-105, 13-42-109, 13-42-113, 13-42-123,
13-42-133, and 13-42-135 to reflect inflation, as measured by the United
States Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers
or, if that index is not available, another index adopted by rule by the
administrator.  The administrator shall adopt a base year and adjust the
dollar amounts, effective on July 1 of each year, if the change in the index
from the base year, as of December 31 of the preceding year, is at least 10%.
The dollar amount must be rounded to the nearest $100, except that the amounts
in Section 13-42-123 must be rounded to the nearest dollar.
(7)  The administrator shall notify registered providers of any change in
dollar amounts made pursuant to Subsection (6) and make that information
available to the public.
