34A-2-102.   Definition of terms.

(1)  As used in this chapter:

(a)  "Average weekly wages" means the average weekly wages as determined under Section 34A-2-409.

(b)  "Award" means a final order of the commission as to the amount of compensation due:

(i)  an injured employee; or

(ii)  a dependent of a deceased employee.

(c)  "Compensation" means the payments and benefits provided for in this chapter or Chapter 3, Utah Occupational Disease Act.

(d) (i)  "Decision" means a ruling of:

(A)  an administrative law judge; or

(B)  in accordance with Section 34A-2-801:

(I)  the commissioner; or

(II)  the Appeals Board.

(ii)  "Decision" includes:

(A)  an award or denial of a medical, disability, death, or other related benefit under this chapter or Chapter 3, Utah Occupational Disease Act; or

(B)  another adjudicative ruling in accordance with this chapter or Chapter 3, Utah Occupational Disease Act.

(e)  "Director" means the director of the division, unless the context requires otherwise.

(f)  "Disability" means an administrative determination that may result in an entitlement to compensation as a consequence of becoming medically impaired as to function.  Disability can be total or partial, temporary or permanent, industrial or nonindustrial.

(g)  "Division" means the Division of Industrial Accidents.

(h)  "Impairment" is a purely medical condition reflecting an anatomical or functional abnormality or loss.  Impairment may be either temporary or permanent, industrial or nonindustrial.

(i)  "Order" means an action of the commission that determines the legal rights, duties, privileges, immunities, or other interests of one or more specific persons, but not a class of persons.

(j) (i)  "Personal injury by accident arising out of and in the course of employment" includes an injury caused by the willful act of a third person directed against an employee because of the employee's employment.

(ii)  "Personal injury by accident arising out of and in the course of employment" does not include a disease, except as the disease results from the injury.

(k)  "Safe" and "safety," as applied to employment or a place of employment, means the freedom from danger to the life or health of employees reasonably permitted by the nature of the employment.

(l)  "Workers' Compensation Fund" means the nonprofit, quasi-public corporation created in Title 31A, Chapter 33, Workers' Compensation Fund.

(2)  As used in this chapter and Chapter 3, Utah Occupational Disease Act:

(a)  "Brother or sister" includes a half brother or sister.

(b)  "Child" includes:

(i)  a posthumous child; or

(ii)  a child legally adopted prior to an injury.



Amended by Chapter 90, 2008 General Session

