34A-2-107.   Appointment of workers' compensation advisory council --
Composition -- Terms of members -- Duties -- Compensation.
(1)  The commissioner shall appoint a workers' compensation advisory council
composed of:
(a)  the following voting members:
(i)  five employer representatives; and
(ii)  five employee representatives; and
(b)  the following nonvoting members:
(i)  a representative of the Workers' Compensation Fund;
(ii)  a representative of a private insurance carrier;
(iii)  a representative of health care providers;
(iv)  the Utah insurance commissioner or the insurance commissioner's
designee; and
(v)  the commissioner or the commissioner's designee.
(2)  Employers and employees shall consider nominating members of groups who
historically may have been excluded from the council, such as women,
minorities, and individuals with disabilities.
(3) (a)  Except as required by Subsection (3)(b), as terms of current council
members expire, the commissioner shall appoint each new member or reappointed
member to a two-year term beginning July 1 and ending June 30.
(b)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (3)(a), the commissioner
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of council members are staggered so that
approximately half of the council is appointed every two years.
(4) (a)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the
replacement shall be appointed for the unexpired term.
(b)  The commissioner shall terminate the term of a council member who ceases
to be representative as designated by the member's original appointment.
(5) (a)  The council shall confer at least quarterly for the purpose of
advising the commission, the division, and the Legislature on:
(i)  the Utah workers' compensation and occupational disease laws;
(ii)  the administration of the laws described in Subsection (5)(a)(i);
(iii)  rules related to the laws described in Subsection (5)(a)(i); and
(iv)  advising the Legislature in accordance with Subsection (5)(b).
(b) (i)  The council and the commission shall jointly study during 2009 the
premium assessment under Section 59-9-101 on an admitted insurer writing
workers' compensation insurance in this state and on a self-insured employer
under Section 34A-2-202 as to:
(A)  whether or not the premium assessment should be changed; or
(B)  whether or not changes should be made to how the premium assessment is
used.
(ii)  The council and commission shall jointly report the results of the study
described in this Subsection (5)(b) to the Business and Labor Interim
Committee by no later than the 2009 November interim meeting.
(6)  Regarding workers' compensation, rehabilitation, and reemployment of
employees who are disabled because of an industrial injury or occupational
disease the council shall:
(a)  offer advice on issues requested by:
(i)  the commission;
(ii)  the division; and
(iii)  the Legislature; and
(b)  make recommendations to:
(i)  the commission; and
(ii)  the division.
(7)  The commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall serve as the chair
of the council and call the necessary meetings.
(8)  The commission shall provide staff support to the council.
(9)  A member may not receive compensation or benefits for the member's
service, but may receive per diem and travel expenses in accordance with:
(a)  Section 63A-3-106;
(b)  Section 63A-3-107; and
(c)  rules made by the Division of Finance pursuant to Sections 63A-3-106 and
63A-3-107.
