34A-2-110.   Workers' compensation insurance fraud -- Elements -- Penalties
-- Notice.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Corporation" has the same meaning as in Section 76-2-201.
(b)  "Intentionally" has the same meaning as in Section 76-2-103.
(c)  "Knowingly" has the same meaning as in Section 76-2-103.
(d)  "Person" has the same meaning as in Section 76-1-601.
(e)  "Recklessly" has the same meaning as in Section 76-2-103.
(f)  "Thing of value" means one or more of the following obtained under this
chapter or Chapter 3, Utah Occupational Disease Act:
(i)  workers' compensation insurance coverage;
(ii)  disability compensation;
(iii)  a medical benefit;
(iv)  a good;
(v)  a professional service;
(vi)  a fee for a professional service; or
(vii)  anything of value.
(2) (a)  A person is guilty of workers' compensation insurance fraud if that
person intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly:
(i)  devises a scheme or artifice to do the following by means of a false or
fraudulent pretense, representation, promise, or material omission:
(A)  obtain a thing of value under this chapter or Chapter 3;
(B)  avoid paying the premium that an insurer charges, for an employee on the
basis of the underwriting criteria applicable to that employee, to obtain a
thing of value under this chapter or Chapter 3; or
(C)  deprive an employee of a thing of value under this chapter or Chapter 3;
and
(ii)  communicates or causes a communication with another in furtherance of
the scheme or artifice.
(b)  A violation of this Subsection (2) includes a scheme or artifice to:
(i)  make or cause to be made a false written or oral statement with the
intent to obtain insurance coverage as mandated by this chapter or Chapter 3
at a rate that does not reflect the risk, industry, employer, or class code
actually covered by the insurance coverage;
(ii)  form a business, reorganize a business, or change ownership in a
business with the intent to obtain insurance coverage as mandated by this
chapter or Chapter 3 at a rate that does not reflect the risk, industry,
employer, or class code actually covered by the insurance coverage;
(iii)  misclassify an employee as one of the following so as to avoid the
obligation to obtain insurance coverage as mandated by this chapter or Chapter
3:
(A)  an independent contractor;
(B)  a sole proprietor;
(C)  an owner;
(D)  a partner;
(E)  an officer; or
(F)  a member in a limited liability company;
(iv)  use a workers' compensation coverage waiver issued under Section
31A-22-1011 to deprive an employee of workers' compensation coverage under
this chapter or Chapter 3; or
(v)  collect or make a claim for temporary disability compensation as provided
in Section 34A-2-410 while working for gain.
(3) (a)  Workers' compensation insurance fraud under Subsection (2) is
punishable in the manner prescribed in Subsection (3)(c).
(b)  A corporation or association is guilty of the offense of workers'
compensation insurance fraud under the same conditions as those set forth in
Section 76-2-204.
(c) (i)  In accordance with Subsection (3)(c)(ii), the determination of the
degree of an offense under Subsection (2) shall be measured by the following
on the basis of which creates the greatest penalty:
(A)  the total value of all property, money, or other things obtained or
sought to be obtained by the scheme or artifice described in Subsection (2);
or
(B)  the number of individuals not covered under this chapter or Chapter 3
because of the scheme or artifice described in Subsection (2).
(ii)  A person is guilty of:
(A)  a class A misdemeanor:
(I)  if the value of the property, money, or other thing of value described in
Subsection (3)(c)(i)(A) is less than $1,000; or
(II)  for each individual described in Subsection (3)(c)(i)(B), if the number
of individuals described in Subsection (3)(c)(i)(B) is less than five;
(B)  a third degree felony:
(I)  if the value of the property, money, or other thing of value described in
Subsection (3)(c)(i)(A) is equal to or greater than $1,000, but is less than
$5,000; or
(II)  for each individual described in Subsection (3)(c)(i)(B), if the number
of individuals described in Subsection (3)(c)(i)(B) is equal to or greater
than five, but is less than 50; and
(C)  a second degree felony:
(I)  if the value of the property, money, or other thing of value described in
Subsection (3)(c)(i)(A) is equal to or greater than $5,000; or
(II)  for each individual described in Subsection (3)(c)(i)(B), if the number
of individuals described in Subsection (3)(c)(i)(B) is equal to or greater
than 50.
(4)  The following are not a necessary element of an offense described in
Subsection (2):
(a)  reliance on the part of a person;
(b)  the intent on the part of the perpetrator of an offense described in
Subsection (2) to permanently deprive a person of property, money, or anything
of value; or
(c)  an insurer or self-insured employer giving written notice in accordance
with Subsection (5) that workers’ compensation insurance fraud is a crime.
(5) (a)  An insurer or self-insured employer who, in connection with this
chapter or Chapter 3, Utah Occupational Disease Act, prints, reproduces, or
furnishes a form described in Subsection (5)(b) shall cause to be printed or
displayed in comparative prominence with other content on the form the
statement: "Any person who knowingly presents false or fraudulent underwriting
information, files or causes to be filed a false or fraudulent claim for
disability compensation or medical benefits, or submits a false or fraudulent
report or billing for health care fees or other professional services is
guilty of a crime and may be subject to fines and confinement in state
prison."
(b)  Subsection (5)(a) applies to a form upon which a person:
(i)  applies for insurance coverage;
(ii)  applies for a workers' compensation coverage waiver issued under Section
31A-22-1011;
(iii)  reports payroll;
(iv)  makes a claim by reason of accident, injury, death, disease, or other
claimed loss; or
(v)  makes a report or gives notice to an insurer or self-insured employer.
(c)  An insurer or self-insured employer who issues a check, warrant, or other
financial instrument in payment of compensation issued under this chapter or
Chapter 3, shall cause to be printed or displayed in comparative prominence
above the area for endorsement a statement substantially similar to the
following: "Workers' compensation insurance fraud is a crime punishable by
Utah law."
(d)  This Subsection (5) applies only to the legal obligations of an insurer
or a self-insured employer.
(e)  A person who violates Subsection (2) is guilty of workers’ compensation
insurance fraud, and the failure of an insurer or a self-insured employer to
fully comply with this Subsection (5) is not:
(i)  a defense to violating Subsection (2); or
(ii)  grounds for suppressing evidence.
(6)  In the absence of malice, a person, employer, insurer, or governmental
entity that reports a suspected fraudulent act relating to a workers'
compensation insurance policy or claim is not subject to civil liability for
libel, slander, or another relevant cause of action.
(7)  In an action involving workers' compensation, this section supersedes
Title 31A, Chapter 31, Insurance Fraud Act.
