34A-2-205.   Notification of workers' compensation insurance coverage to
division -- Cancellation requirements -- Penalty for violation.
(1) (a)  An insurance carrier writing workers' compensation insurance coverage
in this state or for this state, regardless of the state in which the policy
is written, shall file notification of that coverage with the division or the
division's designee within 30 days after the inception date of the policy in
the form prescribed by the division.
(b)  A policy described in Subsection (1)(a) is in effect from inception until
canceled by filing with the division or the division's designee a notification
of cancellation in the form prescribed by the division within 10 days after
the cancellation of a policy.
(c)  Failure to notify the division or its designee under Subsection (1)(b)
results in the continued liability of the carrier until the date that notice
of cancellation is received by the division or the division's designee.
(d)  An insurance carrier described in this Subsection (1) shall make a filing
within 30 days of:
(i)  the reinstatement of a policy;
(ii)  the changing or addition of a name or address of the insured; or
(iii)  the merger of an insured with another entity.
(e)  A filing under this section shall include:
(i)  the name of the insured;
(ii)  the principal business address;
(iii)  any and all assumed name designations;
(iv)  the address of all locations within this state where business is
conducted; and
(v)  all federal employer identification numbers or federal tax identification
numbers.
(2)  Noncompliance with this section is grounds for revocation of an insurance
carrier's certificate of authority in addition to the grounds specified in
Title 31A, Insurance Code.
(3) (a)  The division may assess an insurer up to $150 if the insurer fails to
comply with this section.
(b)  The division shall deposit an amount assessed under Subsection (3)(a)
into the Uninsured Employers' Fund created in Section 34A-2-704 to be used for
the purposes of the Uninsured Employer's Fund specified in Section 34A-2-704.
(c)  The administrator of the Uninsured Employers' Fund shall collect money
required to be deposited into the Uninsured Employers' Fund under this
Subsection (3) in accordance with Section 34A-2-704.
(4) (a)  The notification of workers' compensation insurance coverage required
to be filed under Subsection (1) is a protected record under Section
63G-2-305.
(b)  The commission or any of its divisions may not disclose the information
described in Subsection (4)(a) except as provided in:
(i)  Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act, for a
protected record; or
(ii)  Subsection (4)(c), notwithstanding whether Title 63G, Chapter 2,
Government Records Access and Management Act, permits disclosure.
(c)  The commission may disclose the information described in Subsection
(4)(a) if:
(i)  the information is disclosed on an individual case basis related to a
single employer;
(ii)  the information facilitates the:
(A)  coverage of subcontractors by identifying the insurance carrier providing
workers' compensation coverage for an employer;
(B)  filing of a claim by an employee; or
(C)  payment of services rendered on an employee's claim by a medical
practitioner; and
(iii)  promotes the purposes of this chapter or Chapter 3, Utah Occupational
Disease Act.
(d)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the commission shall make rules concerning when information may be
disclosed under Subsection (4)(c).
