34A-2-410.   Temporary disability -- Amount of payments -- State average
weekly wage defined.
(1) (a)  Subject to Subsections (1)(b) and (5), in case of temporary
disability, so long as the disability is total, the employee shall receive
66-2/3% of that employee's average weekly wages at the time of the injury but:
(i)  not more than a maximum of 100% of the state average weekly wage at the
time of the injury per week; and
(ii) (A)  subject to Subsections (1)(a)(ii)(B) and (C), not less than a
minimum of $45 per week plus:
(I)  $5 for a dependent spouse; and
(II)  $5 for each dependent child under the age of 18 years, up to a maximum
of four dependent children;
(B)  not to exceed the average weekly wage of the employee at the time of the
injury; and
(C)  not to exceed 100% of the state average weekly wage at the time of the
injury per week.
(b)  In no case shall the compensation benefits exceed 312 weeks at the rate
of 100% of the state average weekly wage at the time of the injury over a
period of 12 years from the date of the injury.
(2)  If a light duty medical release is obtained before the employee reaches a
fixed state of recovery and no light duty employment is available to the
employee from the employer, temporary disability benefits shall continue to be
paid.
(3)  The "state average weekly wage" as referred to in this chapter and
Chapter 3, Utah Occupational Disease Act, shall be determined by the
commission as follows:
(a)  On or before June 1 of each year, the total wages reported on
contribution reports to the Unemployment Insurance Division for the preceding
calendar year shall be divided by the average monthly number of insured
workers determined by dividing the total insured workers reported for the
preceding year by 12.
(b)  The average annual wage obtained under Subsection (3)(a) shall be divided
by 52.
(c)  The average weekly wage determined under Subsection (3)(b) is rounded to
the nearest dollar.
(4)  The state average weekly wage determined under Subsection (3) shall be
used as the basis for computing the maximum compensation rate for:
(a)  injuries or disabilities arising from occupational disease that occurred
during the 12-month period commencing July 1 following the June 1
determination; and
(b)  any death resulting from the injuries or disabilities arising from
occupational disease.
(5)  The commission may reduce or terminate temporary disability compensation
in accordance with Section 34-2-410.5.
