34A-2-414.   Benefits in case of death -- Distribution of award to
dependents -- Death of dependents -- Remarriage of surviving spouse.
(1) (a)  Subject to the other provisions of this section, benefits in case of
death of an employee shall be paid to one or more of the dependents of the
decedent employee for the benefit of all the dependents.
(b)  Unless another apportionment is determined by the commission, benefits in
case of death of an employee shall be apportioned among the dependents by:
(i)  dividing the amount of benefits by the number of dependents; and
(ii)  allotting each dependent an equal share.
(c)  If one or more of the dependents described in Subsection (1)(a) is partly
dependent, the commission may apportion the benefits in a manner different
than Subsection (1)(b).
(d)  In the case of a minor child who is a dependent, a benefit shall be paid
to:
(i)  the minor child's surviving parent; or
(ii)  if there is no surviving parent, a court appointed custodian or
guardian.
(2) A dependent or a person to whom a benefit is paid for a dependent, shall
apply the benefit to the use of the one or more beneficiaries.
(3)  In all cases of death, if:
(a)  the dependents are a surviving spouse and one or more minor children, it
is sufficient for the surviving spouse to apply for benefits on behalf of the
surviving spouse and the minor children; and
(b)  all of the dependents are minor children, a guardian or next friend of
the minor dependents shall apply for the benefits.
(4) (a)  An administrative law judge may, for the purpose of protecting the
rights and interests of a minor dependent who does not have a surviving parent
or court appointed custodian or guardian, direct that the benefits be
deposited into an interest bearing account for the purpose of receiving a
payment due the minor dependent.
(b)  Money deposited into an interest bearing account under Subsection (4)(a)
shall be released to:
(i)  a court appointed custodian or guardian of the minor dependent when the
custodian or guardian is appointed; or
(ii)  a minor dependent when the minor dependent becomes 18 years of age.
(c)  The commission, in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah
Administrative Rulemaking Act, may make rules related to the requirements of
an interest bearing account described in Subsection (4)(a).
(5)  If a dependent of a deceased employee dies during the period covered by
weekly payments authorized by this section, the right of the deceased
dependent to compensation under this chapter or Chapter 3, Utah Occupational
Disease Act, ceases.
(6) (a)  If a surviving spouse, who is a dependent of a deceased employee and
who is receiving the benefits of this chapter or Chapter 3, remarries, the
surviving spouse's sole right after the remarriage to further benefits is the
right to receive in a lump sum the lesser of:
(i)  the balance of the weekly compensation payments unpaid:
(A)  from the day on which the surviving spouse remarries; and
(B)  to the end of 312 weeks from the date of the injury from which death
resulted; or
(ii)  an amount equal to 52 weeks of compensation at the weekly compensation
rate the surviving spouse is receiving at the time of the remarriage.
(b)  If there are other dependents remaining as of the day on which a
surviving spouse remarries, benefits payable under this chapter or Chapter 3,
shall be paid for the use and benefit of the other dependents.
(7)  Weekly benefits to be paid under this section shall be paid at intervals
of not less than four weeks.
