34A-2-704.   Uninsured Employers' Fund.
(1) (a)  There is created an Uninsured Employers' Fund.  The Uninsured
Employers' Fund has the purpose of assisting in the payment of workers'
compensation benefits to a person entitled to the benefits, if:
(i)  that person's employer:
(A)  is individually, jointly, or severally liable to pay the benefits; and
(B) (I)  becomes or is insolvent;
(II)  appoints or has appointed a receiver; or
(III)  otherwise does not have sufficient funds, insurance, sureties, or other
security to cover workers' compensation liabilities; and
(ii)  the employment relationship between that person and the person's
employer is localized within the state as provided in Subsection (20).
(b)  The Uninsured Employers' Fund succeeds to monies previously held in the
Default Indemnity Fund.
(c)  If it becomes necessary to pay benefits, the Uninsured Employers' Fund is
liable for the obligations of the employer set forth in this chapter and
Chapter 3, Utah Occupational Disease Act, with the exception of a penalty on
those obligations.
(2) (a)  Monies for the Uninsured Employers' Fund shall be deposited into the
Uninsured Employers' Fund in accordance with this chapter and Subsection
59-9-101(2).
(b)  The commissioner shall appoint an administrator of the Uninsured
Employers' Fund.
(c) (i)  The state treasurer is the custodian of the Uninsured Employers'
Fund.
(ii)  The administrator shall make provisions for and direct distribution from
the Uninsured Employers' Fund.
(3)  Reasonable costs of administering the Uninsured Employers' Fund or other
fees required to be paid by the Uninsured Employers' Fund may be paid from the
Uninsured Employers' Fund.
(4)  The state treasurer shall:
(a)  receive workers' compensation premium assessments from the State Tax
Commission; and
(b)  invest the Uninsured Employers' Fund to ensure maximum investment return
for both long and short term investments in accordance with Section 51-7-12.5.
(5) (a)  The administrator may employ, retain, or appoint counsel to represent
the Uninsured Employers' Fund in a proceeding brought to enforce a claim
against or on behalf of the Uninsured Employers' Fund.
(b)  If requested by the commission, the following shall aid in the
representation of the Uninsured Employers' Fund:
(i)  the attorney general; or
(ii)  the  city attorney, or county attorney of the locality in which:
(A)  an investigation, hearing, or trial under this chapter or Chapter 3, Utah
Occupational Disease Act, is pending;
(B)  the employee resides; or
(C)  an employer:
(I)  resides; or
(II)  is doing business.
(c) (i)  Notwithstanding Title 63A, Chapter 8, Office of State Debt
Collection, the administrator shall provide for the collection of monies
required to be deposited in the Uninsured Employers' Fund under this chapter
and Chapter 3, Utah Occupational Disease Act.
(ii)  To comply with Subsection (5)(c)(i), the administrator may:
(A)  take appropriate action, including docketing an award in a manner
consistent with Section 34A-2-212; and
(B)  employ counsel and other personnel necessary to collect the monies
described in Subsection (5)(c)(i).
(6)  To the extent of the compensation and other benefits paid or payable to
or on behalf of an employee or the employee's dependents from the Uninsured
Employers' Fund, the Uninsured Employers' Fund, by subrogation, has the
rights, powers, and benefits of the employee or the employee's dependents
against the employer failing to make the compensation payments.
(7) (a)  The receiver, trustee, liquidator, or statutory successor of an
employer meeting a condition listed in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B) is bound by a
settlement of a covered claim by the Uninsured Employers' Fund.
(b)  A court with jurisdiction shall grant a payment made under this section a
priority equal to that to which the claimant would have been entitled in the
absence of this section against the assets of the employer meeting a condition
listed in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B).
(c)  The expenses of the Uninsured Employers' Fund in handling a claim shall
be accorded the same priority as the liquidator's expenses.
(8) (a)  The administrator shall periodically file the information described
in Subsection (8)(b) with the receiver, trustee, or liquidator of:
(i)  an employer that meets a condition listed in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B);
(ii)  a public agency insurance mutual, as defined in Section 31A-1-103, that
meets a condition listed in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B); or
(iii)  an insolvent insurance carrier.
(b)  The information required to be filed under Subsection (8)(a) is:
(i)  a statement of the covered claims paid by the Uninsured Employers' Fund;
and
(ii)  an estimate of anticipated claims against the Uninsured Employers' Fund.
(c)  A filing under this Subsection (8) preserves the rights of the Uninsured
Employers' Fund for claims against the assets of the employer that meets a
condition listed in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B).
(9)  When an injury or death for which compensation is payable from the
Uninsured Employers' Fund has been caused by the wrongful act or neglect of
another person not in the same employment, the Uninsured Employers' Fund has
the same rights as allowed under Section 34A-2-106.
(10)  The Uninsured Employers' Fund, subject to approval of the administrator,
shall discharge its obligations by:
(a)  adjusting its own claims; or
(b)  contracting with an adjusting company, risk management company, insurance
company, or other company that has expertise and capabilities in adjusting and
paying workers' compensation claims.
(11) (a)  For the purpose of maintaining the Uninsured Employers' Fund, an
administrative law judge, upon rendering a decision with respect to a claim
for workers' compensation benefits in which an employer that meets a condition
listed in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B) is duly joined as a party, shall:
(i)  order the employer that meets a condition listed in Subsection
(1)(a)(i)(B) to reimburse the Uninsured Employers' Fund for the benefits paid
to or on behalf of an injured employee by the Uninsured Employers' Fund along
with interest, costs, and attorney fees; and
(ii)  impose a penalty against the employer that meets a condition listed in
Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B):
(A)  of 15% of the value of the total award in connection with the claim; and
(B)  that shall be deposited into the Uninsured Employers' Fund.
(b)  An award under this Subsection (11) shall be collected by the
administrator in accordance with Subsection (5)(c).
(12)  The state, the commission, and the state treasurer, with respect to
payment of compensation benefits, expenses, fees, or disbursement properly
chargeable against the Uninsured Employers' Fund:
(a)  are liable only to the assets in the Uninsured Employers' Fund; and
(b)  are not otherwise in any way liable for the making of a payment.
(13)  The commission may make reasonable rules for the processing and payment
of a claim for compensation from the Uninsured Employers' Fund.
(14) (a) (i)  If it becomes necessary for the Uninsured Employers' Fund to pay
benefits under this section to an employee described in Subsection
(14)(a)(ii), the Uninsured Employers' Fund may assess all other self-insured
employers amounts necessary to pay:
(A)  the obligations of the Uninsured Employers' Fund subsequent to a
condition listed in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B) occurring;
(B)  the expenses of handling covered a claim subsequent to a condition listed
in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B) occurring;
(C)  the cost of an examination under Subsection (15); and
(D)  other expenses authorized by this section.
(ii)  This Subsection (14) applies to benefits paid to an employee of:
(A)  a self-insured employer, as defined in Section 34A-2-201.5, that meets a
condition listed in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B); or
(B)  if the self-insured employer that meets a condition described in
Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B) is a public agency insurance mutual, a member of the
public agency insurance mutual.
(b)  The assessments of a self-insured employer shall be in the proportion
that the manual premium of the self-insured employer for the preceding
calendar year bears to the manual premium of all self-insured employers for
the preceding calendar year.
(c)  A self-insured employer shall be notified of the self-insured employer's
assessment not later than 30 days before the day on which the assessment is
due.
(d) (i)  A self-insured employer may not be assessed in any year an amount
greater than 2% of that self-insured employer's manual premium for the
preceding calendar year.
(ii)  If the maximum assessment does not provide in a year an amount
sufficient to make all necessary payments from the Uninsured Employers' Fund
for one or more self-insured employers that meet a condition listed in
Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B), the unpaid portion shall be paid as soon as monies
become available.
(e)  A self-insured employer is liable under this section for a period not to
exceed three years after the day on which the Uninsured Employers' Fund first
pays benefits to an employee described in Subsection (14)(a)(ii) for the self-
insured employer that meets a condition listed in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B).
(f)  This Subsection (14) does not apply to a claim made against a self-
insured employer that meets a condition listed in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B) if
the condition listed in Subsection (1)(a)(i)(B) occurred before July 1, 1986.
(15) (a)  The following shall notify the division of any information
indicating that any of the following may be insolvent or in a financial
condition hazardous to its employees or the public:
(i)  a self-insured employer; or
(ii)  if the self-insured employer is a public agency insurance mutual, a
member of the public agency insurance mutual.
(b)  Upon receipt of the notification described in Subsection (15)(a) and with
good cause appearing, the division may order an examination of:
(i)  that self-insured employer; or
(ii)  if the self-insured employer is a public agency insurance mutual, a
member of the public agency mutual.
(c)  The cost of the examination ordered under Subsection (15)(b) shall be
assessed against all self-insured employers as provided in Subsection (14).
(d)  The results of the examination ordered under Subsection (15)(b) shall be
kept confidential.
(16) (a)  In a claim against an employer by the Uninsured Employers' Fund, or
by or on behalf of the employee to whom or to whose dependents compensation
and other benefits are paid or payable from the Uninsured Employers' Fund, the
burden of proof is on the employer or other party in interest objecting to the
claim.
(b)  A claim described in Subsection (16)(a) is presumed to be valid up to the
full amount of workers' compensation benefits claimed by the employee or the
employee's dependents.
(c)  This Subsection (16) applies whether the claim is filed in court or in an
adjudicative proceeding under the authority of the commission.
(17)  A partner in a partnership or an owner of a sole proprietorship may not
recover compensation or other benefits from the Uninsured Employers' Fund if:
(a)  the person is not included as an employee under Subsection 34A-2-104(3);
or
(b)  the person is included as an employee under Subsection 34A-2-104(3), but:
(i)  the person's employer fails to insure or otherwise provide adequate
payment of direct compensation; and
(ii)  the failure described in Subsection (17)(b)(i) is attributable to an act
or omission over which the person had or shared control or responsibility.
(18)  A director or officer of a corporation may not recover compensation or
other benefits from the Uninsured Employers' Fund if the director or officer
is excluded from coverage under Subsection 34A-2-104(4).
(19)  The Uninsured Employers' Fund:
(a)  shall be:
(i)  used in accordance with this section only for:
(A)  the purpose of assisting in the payment of workers' compensation benefits
in accordance with Subsection (1); and
(B)  in accordance with Subsection (3), payment of:
(I)  reasonable costs of administering the Uninsured Employers' Fund; or
(II)  fees required to be paid by the Uninsured Employers' Fund; and
(ii)  expended according to processes that can be verified by audit; and
(b)  may not be used for:
(i)  administrative costs unrelated to the Uninsured Employers' Fund; or
(ii)  an activity of the commission other than an activity described in
Subsection (19)(a).
(20) (a)  For purposes of Subsection (1), an employment relationship is
localized in the state if:
(i) (A)  the employer who is liable for the benefits has a business premise in
the state; and
(B) (I)  the contract for hire is entered into in the state; or
(II)  the employee regularly performs work duties in the state for the
employer who is liable for the benefits; or
(ii)  the employee is:
(A)  a resident of the state; and
(B)  regularly performs work duties in the state for the employer who is
liable for the benefits.
(b)  In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking
Act, the commission shall by rule define what constitutes regularly performing
work duties in the state.
