34A-2-705.   Industrial Accident Restricted Account.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Account" means the Industrial Accident Restricted Account created by
this section.
(b)  "Advisory council" means the state workers' compensation advisory council
created under Section 34A-2-107.
(2)  There is created in the General Fund a restricted account known as the
"Industrial Accident Restricted Account."
(3) (a)  The account is funded from .5% of the premium income remitted to the
state treasurer and credited to the account pursuant to Subsection
59-9-101(2)(c)(iv).
(b)  If the balance in the account exceeds $500,000 at the close of a fiscal
year, the excess shall be transferred to the Uninsured Employers' Fund created
under Section 34A-2-704.
(4) (a)  From money appropriated by the Legislature from the account to the
commission and subject to the requirements of this section, the commission may
fund:
(i)  the activities of the Division of Industrial Accidents described in
Section 34A-1-202; and
(ii)  the activities of the Division of Adjudication described in Section
34A-1-202.
(b)  The money deposited in the account may not be used for a purpose other
than a purpose described in this Subsection (4), including an administrative
cost or another activity of the commission unrelated to the account.
(5) (a)  Each year before the public hearing required by Subsection
59-9-101(2)(d)(i), the commission shall report to the advisory council
regarding:
(i)  the commission's budget request to the governor for the next fiscal year
related to:
(A)  the Division of Industrial Accidents; and
(B)  the Division of Adjudication;
(ii)  the expenditures of the commission for the fiscal year in which the
commission is reporting related to:
(A)  the Division of Industrial Accidents; and
(B)  the Division of Adjudication; and
(iii)  revenues generated from the premium assessment under Section 59-9-101
on an admitted insurer writing workers' compensation insurance in this state
and on a self-insured employer under Section 34A-2-202.
(b)  The commission shall annually report to the governor and the Legislature
regarding:
(i)  the use of the money appropriated to the commission under this section;
and
(ii)  revenues generated from the premium assessment under Section 59-9-101 on
an admitted insurer writing workers' compensation insurance in this state and
on a self-insured employer under Section 34A-2-202.
