78B-6-103.   Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1)  "Adoptee" means a person who has been legally adopted.
(2)  "Adoption" means the judicial act that:
(a)  creates the relationship of parent and child where it did not previously
exist; and
(b)  except as provided in Subsection 78B-6-138(2), terminates the parental
rights of any other person with respect to the child.
(3)  "Adoption service provider" means a:
(a)  child-placing agency; or
(b)  licensed counselor who has at least one year of experience providing
professional social work services to:
(i)  adoptive parents; or
(ii)  birth parents.
(4)  "Adult" means a person who is 18 years of age or older.
(5)  "Adult adoptee" means an adoptee who is 18 years of age or older.
(6)  "Adult sibling" means a brother or sister of the adoptee, who is 18 years
of age or older and whose birth mother or father is the same as that of the
adoptee.
(7)  "Birth parent" means:
(a)  a biological mother;
(b)  a person whose paternity of a child is established; or
(c)  an alleged father who:
(i)  has been identified as the father of a child by the child's birth mother;
and
(ii)  has not denied paternity.
(8)  "Bureau" means the Bureau of Vital Statistics within the Department of
Health operating under Title 26, Chapter 2, Utah Vital Statistics Act.
(9)  "Child-placing agency" means an agency licensed to place children for
adoption under Title 62A, Chapter 4a, Part 6, Child Placing.
(10)  "Cohabiting" means residing with another person and being involved in a
sexual relationship with that person.
(11)  "Division" means the Division of Child and Family Services, within the
Department of Human Services, created in Section 62A-4a-103.
(12)  "Extra-jurisdictional child-placing agency" means an agency licensed to
place children for adoption by a district, territory, or state of the United
States, other than Utah.
(13)  "Genetic and social history" means a comprehensive report, when
obtainable, on an adoptee's birth parents, aunts, uncles, and grandparents,
which contains the following information:
(a)  medical history;
(b)  health status;
(c)  cause of and age at death;
(d)  height, weight, and eye and hair color;
(e)  ethnic origins;
(f)  where appropriate, levels of education and professional achievement; and
(g)  religion, if any.
(14)  "Health history" means a comprehensive report of the adoptee's health
status at the time of placement for adoption, and medical history, including
neonatal, psychological, physiological, and medical care history.
(15)  "Identifying information" means the name and address of a pre-existing
parent or adult adoptee, or other specific information which by itself or in
reasonable conjunction with other information may be used to identify that
person.
(16)  "Licensed counselor" means a person who is licensed by the state, or
another state, district, or territory of the United States as a:
(a)  certified social worker;
(b)  clinical social worker;
(c)  psychologist;
(d)  marriage and family therapist;
(e)  professional counselor; or
(f)  an equivalent licensed professional of another state, district, or
territory of the United States.
(17)  "Parent," for purposes of Section 78B-6-119, means any person described
in Subsections 78B-6-120(1)(b) through (f) from whom consent for adoption or
relinquishment for adoption is required under Sections 78B-6-120 through
78B-6-122.
(18)  "Pre-existing parent" means:
(a)  a birth parent; or
(b)  a person who, before an adoption decree is entered, is, due to an earlier
adoption decree, legally the parent of the child being adopted.
(19)  "Unmarried biological father" means a person who:
(a)  is the biological father of a child; and
(b)  was not married to the biological mother of the child described in
Subsection (19)(a) at the time of the child's:
(i)  conception; or
(ii)  birth.
