78B-6-128.   Preplacement adoptive evaluations -- Exceptions.
(1) (a)  Except as otherwise provided in this section, a child may not be
placed in an adoptive home until a preplacement adoptive evaluation, assessing
the prospective adoptive parent and the prospective adoptive home, has been
conducted in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(b)  Except as provided in Section 78B-6-131, the court may, at any time,
authorize temporary placement of a child in a potential adoptive home pending
completion of a preplacement adoptive evaluation described in this section.
(c)  Subsection (1)(a) does not apply if a birth parent has legal custody of
the child to be adopted and the prospective adoptive parent is related to that
child as a step-parent, sibling by half or whole blood or by adoption,
grandparent, aunt, uncle, or first cousin, unless the evaluation is otherwise
requested by the court.  The prospective adoptive parent described in this
Subsection (1)(c) shall, however, obtain the information described in
Subsections (2)(a) and (b), and file that documentation with the court prior
to finalization of the adoption.
(d)  The required preplacement adoptive evaluation must be completed or
updated within the 12-month period immediately preceding the placement of a
child with the prospective adoptive parent.  If the prospective adoptive
parent has previously received custody of a child for the purpose of adoption,
the preplacement adoptive evaluation must be completed or updated within the
12-month period immediately preceding the placement of a child with the
prospective adoptive parent and after the placement of the previous child with
the prospective adoptive parent.
(2)  The preplacement adoptive evaluation shall include:
(a)  criminal history record information regarding each prospective adoptive
parent and any other adult living in the prospective home, prepared by a law
enforcement agency based on a fingerprint criminal history check, no earlier
than 18 months immediately preceding placement of the child;
(b)  a report prepared by the Department of Human Services containing all
information regarding reports and investigation of child abuse, neglect, and
dependency, with respect to each prospective adoptive parent and any other
adult living in the prospective home, obtained no earlier than 18 months
immediately preceding placement of the child, pursuant to waivers executed by
those parties;
(c)  an evaluation conducted by an expert in family relations approved by the
court or a certified social worker, clinical social worker, marriage and
family therapist, psychologist, professional counselor, or other court-
determined expert in family relations, who is licensed to practice under the
laws of this state or under the laws of the state where the prospective
adoptive parent or other person living in the prospective adoptive home
resides.  The evaluation shall be in a form approved by the Department of
Human Services.  Neither the Department of Human Services nor any of its
divisions may proscribe who qualifies as an expert in family relations or who
may conduct evaluations pursuant to this Subsection (2); and
(d)  if the child to be adopted is a child who is in the custody of any public
child welfare agency, and is a child who has a special need as defined in
Section 62A-4a-902, the preplacement evaluation must be conducted by the
Department of Human Services or a child-placing agency which has entered into
a contract with the department to conduct the preplacement evaluations for
children with special needs.  Any fee assessed by the evaluating agency is the
responsibility of the adopting parent or parents.
(3)  The person or agency conducting the preplacement adoptive evaluation
shall, in connection with the evaluation, provide the prospective adoptive
parent or parents with literature approved by the Division of Child and Family
Services relating to adoption, and including information relating to the
adoption process, developmental issues that may require early intervention,
and community resources that are available to the adoptive parent or parents.
(4)  A copy of the preplacement adoptive evaluation shall be filed with the
court.
