78B-6-135.   Division of Child and Family Services -- Duties -- Report --
Fee.
(1)  At the request of the court, the division, through its field agents,
persons licensed by the division for the care and placement of children, or
through the probation officer of the juvenile court or court of like
jurisdiction of the county, under the division's supervision, shall:
(a)  verify the allegations of the petition for adoption of a minor child;
(b)  make a thorough investigation of the matter; and
(c)  report the division's findings in writing to the court.
(2) (a)  When the court requests an investigation under Subsection (1), the
court shall serve a copy of the petition, together with a statement containing
the names and addresses of the child and petitioners, on the division by
certified mail.
(b)  The division, or the person appointed by the division, shall complete the
investigation described in Subsection (2)(a) and submit a written report to
the court within 60 days after the day that the petition is served on the
division.
(3) (a)  The division shall charge the petitioner a reasonable fee for the
services provided under this section.
(b)  Fees collected shall be deposited in the General Fund.
(4)  The written report submitted to the court under this section shall state:
(a)  why the birth parents, if living, desire to be released from the care,
support, and guardianship of the child;
(b)  whether the birth parents have abandoned the child or are morally unfit
for custody;
(c)  whether the proposed adoptive parent or parents are financially able and
morally fit to have the care, supervision, and training of the child;
(d)  the physical and mental condition of the child, so far as that may be
determined; and
(e)  any other facts and circumstances pertaining to the child and the child's
welfare.
(5) (a)  The court shall conduct a full hearing on the petition for adoption
and examine the parties in interest under oath.
(b)  The court may adjourn the hearing from time to time as the nature of the
case requires.
(6)  If the report submitted by the division under Subsection (2) disapproves
of the adoption of the child by the petitioner, the court may dismiss the
petition.
(7) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (7)(b), a final decree of adoption
may not be entered until the child has lived in the home of the adoptive
parent or parents for six months, unless, based on a finding of good cause,
the court orders that the final decree of adoption may be entered at an
earlier time.
(b)  If the adoptive parent is the spouse of the birth parent, a final decree
of adoption may not be entered until the child has lived in the home of that
adoptive parent for one year, unless, based on a finding of good cause, the
court orders that the final decree of adoption may be entered at an earlier
time.
(c)  In the event the child dies during the time that the child is placed in
the home of an adoptive parent or parents for the purpose of adoption, the
court has authority to enter a final decree of adoption after the child's
death upon the request of the adoptive parents.
(d)  The court may enter a final decree of adoption declaring that a child is
adopted by both a deceased and a surviving adoptive parent if, after the child
is placed in the home of the child's adoptive parents:
(i)  one of the adoptive parents dies;
(ii)  the surviving adoptive parent requests that the court enter the decree;
and
(iii)  the decree is entered after the child has lived in the home of the
surviving adoptive parent for at least six months.
(e)  Upon request of a surviving birth parent, or a surviving parent for whom
adoption of a child has been finalized, the court may enter a final decree of
adoption declaring that a child is adopted by a deceased adoptive parent who
was the spouse of the surviving parent at the time of the adoptive parent's
death.
(f)  The court may enter a final decree of adoption declaring that a child is
adopted by both deceased adoptive parents if:
(i)  both of the adoptive parents die after the child is placed in the
adoptive parent's home; and
(ii)  it is in the best interests of the child to enter the decree.
(8)  Nothing in this section shall be construed to grant any rights to the
birth parents of a child to assert any interest in the child during the six-
month or one-year periods described in this section.
