78B-6-136.5.   Timing of entry of final decree of adoption -- Posthumous adoption.

(1)  Except as provided in Subsection (2), a final decree of adoption may not be entered until the earlier of:

(a)  when the child has lived in the home of the prospective adoptive parent for six months; or

(b)  when the child has been placed for adoption with the prospective adoptive parent for six months.

(2) (a)  If the prospective adoptive parent is the spouse of the pre-existing parent, a final decree of adoption may not be entered until the child has lived in the home of that prospective adoptive parent for one year, unless, based on a finding of good cause, the court orders that the final decree of adoption may be entered at an earlier time.

(b)  The court may, based on a finding of good cause, order that the final decree of adoption be entered at an earlier time than described in Subsection (1).

(3)  If the child dies during the time that the child is placed in the home of a prospective adoptive parent or parents for the purpose of adoption, the court has authority to enter a final decree of adoption after the child's death upon the request of the prospective adoptive parents.

(4)  The court may enter a final decree of adoption declaring that a child is adopted by both a deceased and a surviving adoptive parent if, after the child is placed in the home of the child's prospective adoptive parents:

(a)  one of the prospective adoptive parents dies;

(b)  the surviving prospective adoptive parent requests that the court enter the decree; and

(c)  the decree is entered after the child has lived in the home of the surviving prospective adoptive parent for at least six months.

(5)  Upon request of a surviving pre-existing parent, or a surviving parent for whom adoption of a child has been finalized, the court may enter a final decree of adoption declaring that a child is adopted by a deceased adoptive parent who was the spouse of the surviving parent at the time of the prospective adoptive parent's death.

(6)  The court may enter a final decree of adoption declaring that a child is adopted by both deceased prospective adoptive parents if:

(a)  both of the prospective adoptive parents die after the child is placed in the prospective adoptive parents' home; and

(b)  it is in the best interests of the child to enter the decree.

(7)  Nothing in this section shall be construed to grant any rights to the pre-existing parents of a child to assert any interest in the child during the six-month or one-year periods described in this section.

