78B-6-144.   Mutual-consent, voluntary adoption registry -- Procedures -- Fees.

(1)  The office shall establish a mutual-consent, voluntary adoption registry.

(a)  Adult adoptees and birth parents of adult adoptees, upon presentation of positive identification, may request identifying information from the office, in the form established by the office.  A court of competent jurisdiction or a child-placing agency may accept that request from the adult adoptee or birth parent, in the form provided by the office, and transfer that request to the office.  The adult adoptee or birth parent is responsible for notifying the office of any change in information contained in the request.

(b)  The office may only release identifying information to an adult adoptee or birth parent when it receives requests from both the adoptee and the adoptee's birth parent.

(c)  After matching the request of an adult adoptee with that of at least one of the adoptee's birth parents, the office shall notify both the adoptee and the birth parent that the requests have been matched, and disclose the identifying information to those parties.  However, if that adult adoptee has a sibling of the same birth parent who is under the age of 18 years, and who was raised in the same family setting as the adult adoptee, the office shall not disclose the requested identifying information to that adult adoptee or the adoptee's birth parent.

(2) (a)  Adult adoptees and adult siblings of adult adoptees, upon presentation of positive identification, may request identifying information from the office, in the form established by the office.  A court of competent jurisdiction or a child-placing agency may accept that request from the adult adoptee or adult sibling, in the form provided by the office, and transfer that request to the office.  The adult adoptee or adult sibling is responsible for notifying the office of any change in information contained in the request.

(b)  The office may only release identifying information to an adult adoptee or adult sibling when it receives requests from both the adoptee and the adoptee's adult sibling.

(c)  After matching the request of an adult adoptee with that of the adoptee's adult sibling, if the office has been provided with sufficient information to make that match, the office shall notify both the adoptee and the adult sibling that the requests have been matched, and disclose the identifying information to those parties.

(3)  Information registered with the bureau under this section is available only to a registered adult adoptee and the adoptee's registered birth parent or registered adult sibling, under the terms of this section.

(4)  Information regarding a birth parent who has not registered a request with the bureau may not be disclosed.

(5)  The bureau may charge a fee for services provided under this section, limited to the cost of providing those services.



Amended by Chapter 340, 2012 General Session

