78B-6-316.    Compensatory service for violation of parent-time order or
failure to pay child support.
(1)  If a court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that a parent has
refused to comply with the minimum amount of parent-time ordered in a decree
of divorce, the court shall order the parent to:
(a)  perform a minimum of ten hours of compensatory service; and
(b)  participate in workshops, classes, or individual counseling to educate
the parent about the importance of complying with the court order and
providing a child a continuing relationship with both parents.
(2)  If a custodial parent is ordered to perform compensatory service or
undergo court-ordered education, there is a rebuttable presumption that the
noncustodial parent be granted parent-time by the court to provide child care
during the time the custodial parent is complying with compensatory service or
education in order to recompense him for parent-time wrongfully denied by the
custodial parent under the divorce decree.
(3)  If a noncustodial parent is ordered to perform compensatory service or
undergo court-ordered education, the court shall attempt to schedule the
compensatory service or education at times that will not interfere with the
noncustodial parent's parent-time with the child.
(4)  The person ordered to participate in court-ordered education is
responsible for expenses of workshops, classes, and individual counseling.
(5)  If a court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that an obligor, as
defined in Section 78B-12-102, has refused to pay child support as ordered by
a court in accordance with Title 78B, Chapter 12, Utah Child Support Act, the
court shall order the obligor to:
(a)  perform a minimum of ten hours of compensatory service; and
(b)  participate in workshops, classes, or individual counseling to educate
the obligor about the importance of complying with the court order and
providing the children with a regular and stable source of support.
(6)  The obligor is responsible for the expenses of workshops, classes, and
individual counseling ordered by the court.
(7)  If a court orders an obligor to perform compensatory service or undergo
court-ordered education, the court shall attempt to schedule the compensatory
service or education at times that will not interfere with the obligor's
parent-time with the child.
(8)  The sanctions that the court shall impose under this section do not
prevent the court from imposing other sanctions or prevent any person from
bringing a cause of action allowed under state or federal law.
(9)  The Legislature shall allocate the money from the Children's Legal
Defense Account to the judiciary to defray the cost of enforcing and
administering this section.
