78B-6-808.   Possession bond of plaintiff -- Alternative remedies.

(1)  At any time between the filing of the complaint and the entry of final judgment, the plaintiff may execute and file a possession bond.  The bond may be in the form of a corporate bond, a cash bond, certified funds, or a property bond executed by two persons who own real property in the state and who are not parties to the action.

(2)  The court shall approve the bond in an amount which is the probable amount of costs of suit and damages which may result to the defendant if the suit has been improperly instituted.  The bond shall be payable to the clerk of the court for the benefit of the defendant for all costs and damages actually adjudged against the plaintiff.

(3)  The plaintiff shall notify the defendant of the possession bond.  This notice shall be served in the same manner as service of summons and shall inform the defendant of all of the alternative remedies and procedures under Subsection (4).

(4)  The following are alternative remedies and procedures applicable to an action if the plaintiff files a possession bond under Subsections (1) through (3):

(a)  With respect to an unlawful detainer action based solely upon nonpayment of rent or other amounts due, the existing contract shall remain in force and the complaint shall be dismissed if the defendant, within three calendar days of the service of the notice of the possession bond, pays accrued rent, all other amounts due, and other costs, including attorney fees, as provided in the rental agreement.

(b) (i)  The defendant may remain in possession if he executes and files a counter bond in the form of a corporate bond, a cash bond, certified funds, or a property bond executed by two persons who own real property in the state and who are not parties to the action.

(ii)  The form of the bond is at the defendant's option.

(iii)  The bond shall be payable to the clerk of the court.

(iv)  The defendant shall file the bond prior to the later of the expiration of three business days from the date he is served with notice of the filing of plaintiff's possession bond or within 24 hours after the court sets the bond amount.

(v)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(b)(iv), the court may allow a period of up to 72 hours for the posting of the counter bond.

(vi)  The court shall approve the bond in an amount which is the probable amount of costs of suit, including attorney fees and actual damages which may result to the plaintiff if the defendant has improperly withheld possession.

(vii)  The court shall consider prepaid rent to the owner as a portion of the defendant's total bond.

(c)  If the defendant demands, within three days of being served with notice of the filing of plaintiff's possession bond, the defendant shall be granted a hearing within three days of the defendant's demand.

(5)  If the defendant does not elect and comply with a remedy under Subsection (4) within the required time, the plaintiff, upon ex parte motion, shall be granted an order of restitution.  A constable or the sheriff of the county where the property is situated shall return possession of the property to the plaintiff promptly.

(6)  If the defendant demands a hearing under Subsection (4)(c), and if the court rules after the hearing that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the property, the constable or sheriff shall promptly return possession of the property to the plaintiff.  If at the hearing the court allows the defendant to remain in possession and further issues remain to be adjudicated between the parties, the court shall require the defendant to post a bond as required in Subsection (4)(b) and shall expedite all further proceedings, including beginning the trial no later than 30 days from the posting of the plaintiff's bond, unless the parties otherwise agree.

(7)  If at the hearing the court rules that all issues between the parties can be adjudicated without further court proceedings, the court shall, upon adjudicating those issues, enter judgment on the merits.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 3, 2008 General Session

