78B-6-1101 (Superseded 11/01/10).   Definitions -- Nuisance -- Right of
action -- Judgment.
(1)  A nuisance is anything which is injurious to health, indecent, offensive
to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.  A nuisance may
be the subject of an action.
(2)  A nuisance may include the following:
(a)  drug houses and drug dealing as provided in Section 78B-6-1107;
(b)  gambling as provided in Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11;
(c)  criminal activity committed in concert with two or more persons as
provided in Section 76-3-203.1;
(d)  party houses which frequently create conditions defined in Subsection
(1); and
(e)  prostitution as provided in Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 13.
(3)  A nuisance under this part includes tobacco smoke that drifts into any
residential unit a person rents, leases, or owns, from another residential or
commercial unit and the smoke:
(a)  drifts in more than once in each of two or more consecutive seven-day
periods; and
(b)  creates any of the conditions under Subsection (1).
(4)  Subsection (3) does not apply to:
(a)  residential rental units available for temporary rental, such as for
vacations, or available for only 30 or fewer days at a time; or
(b)  hotel or motel rooms.
(5)  Subsection (3) does not apply to any unit that is part of a timeshare
development, as defined in Section 57-19-2, or subject to a timeshare interest
as defined in Section 57-19-2.
(6)  An action may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously
affected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance.
(7)  "Agricultural operation" means any activity engaged in the commercial
production of crops, orchards, aquaculture, livestock, poultry, livestock
products, poultry products, and the facilities, equipment, and property used
to facilitate the activity.
(8)  "Manufacturing facility" means any factory, plant, or other facility
including its appurtenances, where the form of raw materials, processed
materials, commodities, or other physical objects is converted or otherwise
changed into other materials, commodities, or physical objects or where such
materials, commodities, or physical objects are combined to form a new
material, commodity, or physical object.
