78B-6-1507.   General provisions -- Construction.
(1)  The provisions of this part may not be waived by any payee.
(2) (a)  Any transfer agreement entered into on or after May 6, 2002 by a
payee who resides in this state shall provide that disputes under the transfer
agreement, including any claim that the payee has breached the agreement,
shall be determined in and under the laws of this state.
(b)  A transfer agreement may not authorize the transferee or any other party
to confess judgment or consent to entry of judgment against the payee.
(3)  The transfer of structured settlement payment rights may not extend to
any payments that are life-contingent unless, before the date on which the
payee signs the transfer agreement, the transferee establishes and agrees to
maintain procedures reasonably satisfactory to the annuity issuer and the
structured settlement obligor for:
(a)  periodically confirming the payee's survival; and
(b)  giving the annuity issuer and the structured settlement obligor prompt
written notice in the event of the payee's death.
(4)  A payee who proposes to make a transfer of structured settlement payment
rights may not incur any of the following on the basis of a failure of the
transfer to satisfy the requirements of this part:
(a)  a penalty;
(b)  a forfeiture of any application fee or other payment; or
(c)  any liability to the proposed transferee or any assignee based on any
failure of the transfer to satisfy the requirements of this part.
(5) (a)  This part may not be construed to authorize any transfer of
structured settlement payment rights in contravention of any law or to imply
that any transfer under a transfer agreement entered into before May 6, 2002
is valid or invalid.
(b)  This part does not apply to a transfer of payment rights under workers'
compensation, as defined in Section 34A-2-422, that takes effect on or after
April 30, 2007.
(6)  Compliance with Section 78B-6-1503 and fulfillment of the conditions set
forth in Section 78B-6-1504 shall be solely the responsibility of the
transferee in any transfer of structured settlement payment rights, and
neither the structured settlement obligor nor the annuity issuer shall bear
any responsibility for, or any liability arising from, noncompliance with the
requirements or failure to fulfill the conditions.
