53-2a-102.   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

(1)  "Attack" means a nuclear, cyber, conventional, biological, act of terrorism, or chemical warfare action against the United States of America or this state.

(2)  "Commissioner" means the commissioner of the Department of Public Safety or the commissioner's designee.

(3)  "Director" means the division director appointed under Section 53-2a-103 or the director's designee.

(4)  "Disaster" means an event that:

(a)  causes, or threatens to cause, loss of life, human suffering, public or private property damage, or economic or social disruption resulting from attack, internal disturbance, natural phenomena, or technological hazard; and

(b)  requires resources that are beyond the scope of local agencies in routine responses to emergencies and accidents and may be of a magnitude or involve unusual circumstances that require response by government, not-for-profit, or private entities.

(5)  "Division" means the Division of Emergency Management created in Section 53-2a-103.

(6)  "Energy" includes the energy resources defined in this chapter.

(7)  "Expenses" means actual labor costs of government and volunteer personnel, and materials.

(8)  "Hazardous materials emergency" means a sudden and unexpected release of any substance that because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics presents a direct and immediate threat to public safety or the environment and requires immediate action to mitigate the threat.

(9)  "Internal disturbance" means a riot, prison break, terrorism, or strike.

(10)  "Natural phenomena" means any earthquake, tornado, storm, flood, landslide, avalanche, forest or range fire, drought, or epidemic.

(11)  "State of emergency" means a condition in any part of this state that requires state government emergency assistance to supplement the local efforts of the affected political subdivision to save lives and to protect property, public health, welfare, or safety in the event of a disaster, or to avoid or reduce the threat of a disaster.

(12)  "Technological hazard" means any hazardous materials accident, mine accident, train derailment, air crash, radiation incident, pollution, structural fire, or explosion.

(13)  "Terrorism" means activities or the threat of activities that:

(a)  involve acts dangerous to human life;

(b)  are a violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of this state; and

(c)  to a reasonable person, would appear to be intended to:

(i)  intimidate or coerce a civilian population;

(ii)  influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or

(iii)  affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, or kidnapping.

(14)  "Urban search and rescue" means the location, extrication, and initial medical stabilization of victims trapped in a confined space as the result of a structural collapse, transportation accident, mining accident, or collapsed trench.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 295, 2013 General Session

