53-2a-208.   Local emergency -- Declarations.

(1) (a)  A local emergency may be declared by proclamation of the chief executive officer of a municipality or county.

(b)  A local emergency shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of 30 days except by or with the consent of the governing body of the municipality or county.

(c)  Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be filed promptly with the office of the clerk of the affected municipality or county.

(2)  A declaration of a local emergency:

(a)  constitutes an official recognition that a disaster situation exists within the affected municipality or county;

(b)  provides a legal basis for requesting and obtaining mutual aid or disaster assistance from other political subdivisions or from the state or federal government;

(c)  activates the response and recovery aspects of any and all applicable local disaster emergency plans; and

(d)  authorizes the furnishing of aid and assistance in relation to the proclamation.

(3)  A local emergency proclamation issued under this section shall state:

(a)  the nature of the local emergency;

(b)  the area or areas that are affected or threatened; and

(c)  the conditions which caused the emergency.

(4)  The emergency declaration process within the state shall be as follows:

(a)  a city, town, or township shall declare to the county;

(b)  a county shall declare to the state;

(c)  the state shall declare to the federal government; and

(d)  a tribe, as defined in Section 23-13-12.5, shall declare as determined under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5121 et seq.

(5)  Nothing in this part affects:

(a)  the governor's authority to declare a state of emergency under Section 53-2a-206; or

(b)  the duties, requests, reimbursements, or other actions taken by a political subdivision participating in the state-wide mutual aid system pursuant to Title 53, Chapter 2a, Part 3, Statewide Mutual Aid Act.



Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 295, 2013 General Session

