32A-12-105 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Additional criminal penalties.

In addition to the penalties provided in Title 76, Chapter 3, Penalties:

(1)  Upon any defendant's conviction of any offense defined in this title, the court may also order the defendant to make restitution or pay costs in accordance with Title 77, Chapter 32A, Defense Costs.

(2) (a)  Upon a corporation's, association's, partnership's, or limited liability company's conviction of any offense defined in this title, and a failure of the corporation, partnership, association, or limited liability company to pay a fine imposed upon it, the powers, rights, and privileges of the corporation, association, partnership, or limited liability company, if it is a domestic corporation, association, partnership, or limited liability company may be suspended or revoked, and if a foreign corporation, association, partnership, or limited liability company, it forfeits its right to do intrastate business in this state.

(b)  The department shall transmit the name of each corporation, association, partnership, or limited liability company to the Division of Corporations and Commercial Code, which shall immediately record the action in a manner  that makes the information available to the public.  The suspension, revocation, or forfeiture is effective from the time the record is made, and the certificate of the Division of Corporations and Commercial Code is prima facie evidence of the suspension, revocation, or forfeiture.  Nothing contained in this section may be construed as affecting, limiting, or restricting any proceedings that otherwise may be taken for the imposition of any other punishment or the modes of enforcement or recovery of fines or penalties.

(3)  Upon the conviction of any business entity required to have a business license to operate its business activities, or upon the conviction of any of its agents, employees, or officers of any offense defined in this title, with the knowledge, consent, or acquiescence of the business entity, the department shall forward a copy of the judgment of conviction to the appropriate governmental entity responsible for issuing and revoking the business licenses.  That governmental entity may institute appropriate proceedings to revoke the business' license, and upon revocation,  a license may not be granted to the business entity for at least one year from the date of revocation.  Upon the conviction for a second or other offense, a license may not be granted for at least two years from the date of revocation.

(4)  Upon conviction of any physician, pharmacist, druggist, dentist, or veterinarian of any offense defined in this title, the department shall forward a certified copy of the judgment of conviction to the Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing.  That department may institute appropriate proceedings to revoke the defendant's license, and upon revocation, a license may not be granted to the defendant by the department for at least one year from the date of revocation.  Upon the defendant's conviction for a second or other offense, a license may not be granted for at least two years from the date of revocation.

