32A-12-209.   Unlawful purchase, possession, consumption by minors --
Measurable amounts in body.
(1)  Unless specifically authorized by this title, it is unlawful for a minor
to:
(a)  purchase an alcoholic beverage or product;
(b)  attempt to purchase an alcoholic beverage or product;
(c)  solicit another person to purchase an alcoholic beverage or product;
(d)  possess an alcoholic beverage or product;
(e)  consume an alcoholic beverage or product; or
(f)  have measurable blood, breath, or urine alcohol concentration in the
minor's body.
(2)  It is unlawful for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining an
alcoholic beverage or product for a minor for:
(a)  a minor to misrepresent the minor's age; or
(b)  any other person to misrepresent the age of a minor.
(3)  It is unlawful for a minor to possess or consume an alcoholic beverage
while riding in a limousine or chartered bus.
(4)  If a minor is found by a court to have violated this section and the
violation is the minor's second or subsequent violation of this section, the
court:
(a)  shall order the minor to participate in an educational series as defined
in Section 41-6a-501; and
(b)  may order the minor to participate in a screening as defined in Section
41-6a-501.
(5) (a)  When a minor who is at least 18 years old, but younger than 21 years
old, is found by a court to have violated this section, except as provided in
Section 32A-12-223, the court hearing the case shall suspend the minor's
driving privileges under Section 53-3-219.
(b)  Notwithstanding the provision in Subsection (5)(a), the court may reduce
the suspension period required under Section 53-3-219 if:
(i)  the violation is the minor's first violation of this section; and
(ii)  the minor completes an educational series as defined in Section
41-6a-501.
(6)  When a minor who is at least 13 years old, but younger than 18 years old,
is found by the court to have violated this section, Section 78A-6-606 applies
to the violation.
(7)  When a court issues an order suspending a person's driving privileges for
a violation of this section, the Driver License Division shall suspend the
person's license under Section 53-3-219.
(8)  When the Department of Public Safety receives the arrest or conviction
record of a person for a driving offense committed while the person's license
is suspended pursuant to this section, the Department of Public Safety shall
extend the suspension for an additional like period of time.
(9)  This section does not apply to a minor's consumption of an alcoholic
beverage or product in accordance with this title:
(a)  for medicinal purposes if:
(i)  the minor is at least 18 years old; or
(ii)  the alcoholic beverage or product is furnished by:
(A)  the parent or guardian of the minor; or
(B)  the minor's physician or dentist; or
(b)  as part of a church's or religious organization's religious services.
