32A-12-602.   Exclusive outlets.
(1)  It is unlawful for any industry member, directly or indirectly or through
an affiliate, to require, by agreement or otherwise, that the department or a
retailer purchase any alcoholic beverage products from the industry member or
the department to the exclusion in whole or in part of any of those products
sold or offered for sale by other persons.
(2) (a)  Subsection (1) applies only to a transaction between:
(i)  one or more industry members; and
(ii) (A)  the department; or
(B)  one or more retailers.
(b)  Subsection (1) does not apply to a transaction between two or more
industry members including between a manufacturer and a wholesaler.
(3)  Subsection (1) includes purchases coerced by industry members through
acts or threats of physical or economic harm, as well as voluntary industry
member-retailer purchase agreements.
(4) (a)  Subsection (1) includes any contract or agreement, written or
unwritten, that has the effect of requiring the department or retailer to
purchase alcoholic beverages from the industry member beyond a single sales
transaction.
(b)  Examples of a contract described in Subsection (4)(a) include:
(i)  an advertising contract between an industry member and a retailer with
the express or implied requirement of the purchase of the advertiser's
products; or
(ii)  a sales contract awarded on a competitive bid basis that has the effect
of prohibiting the department or retailer from purchasing from other industry
members by:
(A)  requiring that the retailer purchase a product or line of products
exclusively from the industry member for the period of the agreement; or
(B)  requiring that the retailer purchase a specific or minimum quantity
during the period of the agreement.
(5) (a)  Subsection (1) includes any contract, agreement, or other arrangement
between an industry member and a third party nonretailer that requires the
department or a retailer to purchase the industry member's products to the
exclusion in whole or in part of any alcoholic beverage products sold or
offered for sale by other persons.
(b)  This Subsection (5) applies whether the contract, agreement, or other
arrangement originates with the industry member or the third party.
(c)  Examples of a contract, agreement, or other arrangement described in this
Subsection (5) include:
(i)  a contract, agreement, or arrangement:
(A)  with a third party such as a ball club or municipal or private
corporation that is not a retailer;
(B)  under which the third party leases the concession rights and is able to
control the purchasing decisions of a retailer; and
(C)  that requires the retailer to purchase the industry member's products to
the exclusion in whole or in part of any alcoholic beverage products sold or
offered for sale by other persons; or
(ii)  a contract, agreement, or arrangement with a third party nonretailer
that in return requires a retailer to purchase the industry member's products
to the exclusion in whole or in part of any alcoholic beverage products sold
or offered for sale by other persons in return for which the third party
provides a service or other thing of value such as:
(A)  sponsoring radio or television broadcasting;
(B)  paying for advertising; or
(C)  providing other services or things of value.
