32A-12-603 (Repealed 07/01/11).   Tied house -- Prohibitions.
(1) (a)  It is unlawful for an industry member, directly or indirectly or
through an affiliate, to induce any retailer to purchase any alcoholic
beverages from the industry member or from the department to the exclusion in
whole or in part of any of those products sold or offered for sale by other
persons by acquiring or holding any interest in any license with respect to
the premises of a retailer, except where the license is held by a retailer
that is completely owned by the industry member.
(b)  Interest in any retail license includes any interest acquired by a
corporate official, partner, employee, or other representative of the industry
member.
(c)  Any interest in a retail license acquired by a separate corporation in
which the industry member or the industry member's officials hold ownership or
are otherwise affiliated is an interest in a retail license.
(d)  Less than complete ownership of a retail business by an industry member
constitutes an interest in a retail license within the meaning of Subsection
(1)(a).
(2) (a)  It is unlawful for any industry member, directly or indirectly or
through an affiliate, to induce any retailer to purchase any alcoholic
beverages from the industry member or from the department to the exclusion in
whole or in part of any of those products sold or offered for sale by other
persons by acquiring any interest in real or personal property owned,
occupied, or used by the retailer in the conduct of the retailer's business.
(b)  For purposes of Subsection (2)(a):
(i)  "interest" does not include complete ownership of a retail business by an
industry member;
(ii)  interest in retail property includes any interest acquired by a
corporate official, partner, employee, or other representative of the industry
member;
(iii)  any interest in a retail license acquired by a separate corporation in
which the industry member or its officials hold ownership or are otherwise
affiliated is an interest in the retailer's property;
(iv)  less than complete ownership of a retail business by an industry member
constitutes an interest in retail property;
(v)  the acquisition of a mortgage on a retailer's real or personal property
by an industry member constitutes an interest in the retailer's property; and
(vi)  the renting of display space by an industry member at a retail
establishment constitutes an interest in the retailer's property.
(3) (a)  It is unlawful for any industry member, directly or indirectly or
through an affiliate, to induce any retailer to purchase any alcoholic
beverages from the industry member or from the department to the exclusion in
whole or in part of any of those products sold or offered for sale by other
persons by furnishing, giving, renting, lending, or selling to the retailer
any equipment, fixtures, signs, supplies, money, services, or other thing of
value, subject to the exceptions enumerated in Subsection (4).
(b) (i)  For purposes of this Subsection (3), indirect inducement includes:
(A)  furnishing things of value to a third party where the benefits resulting
from the things of value flow to individual retailers; and
(B)  making payments for advertising to a retailer association or a display
company where the resulting benefits flow to individual retailers.
(ii)  Notwithstanding Subsection (3)(b)(i), an indirect inducement does not
arise if:
(A)  the thing of value was furnished to a retailer by the third party without
the knowledge or intent of the industry member; or
(B)  the industry member did not reasonably foresee that the thing of value
would have been furnished to a retailer.
(iii)  Anything that may lawfully be furnished, given, rented, lent, or sold
by industry members to retailers under Subsection (4) may be furnished
directly by a third party to a retailer.
(c) (i)  A transaction in which equipment is sold to a retailer by an industry
member, except as provided in Subsection (4), is the selling of equipment
within the meaning of Subsection (3)(a) regardless of how the equipment is
sold.
(ii)  The negotiation by an industry member of a special price to a retailer
for equipment from an equipment company is the furnishing of a thing of value
within the meaning of Subsection (3)(a).
(d)  The furnishing of free warehousing by delaying delivery of alcoholic
beverages beyond the time that payment for the product is received, or if a
retailer is purchasing on credit, delaying final delivery of products beyond
the close of the period of time for which credit is lawfully extended, is the
furnishing of a service or thing of value within the meaning of Subsection
(3)(a).
(e)  Any financial, legal, administrative, or influential assistance given a
retailer by an industry member in the retailer's acquisition of the retailer's
license is the furnishing of a service or thing of value within the meaning of
Subsection (3)(a).
(4) (a)  Notwithstanding Subsection (3), things of value may be furnished by
industry members to retailers under the conditions and within the limitations
prescribed in:
(i)  this Subsection (4); and
(ii)  the applicable federal laws cited in this Subsection (4).
(b) (i)  The following may be furnished by an industry member:
(A)  a product display as provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.83;
(B)  point of sale advertising materials and consumer advertising specialties
as provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.84;
(C)  things of value to a temporary retailer to the extent allowed in 27
C.F.R. Sec. 6.85;
(D)  equipment and supplies as provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.88;
(E)  combination packaging as provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.93;
(F)  educational seminars as provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.94;
(G)  consumer promotions as provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.96;
(H)  advertising service as provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.98;
(I)  stocking, rotation, and pricing service as provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec.
6.99;
(J)  merchandise as provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.101; and
(K)  outside signs as provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.102.
(ii)  The following exceptions provided in federal law are not adopted:
(A)  the exception for samples provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.91;
(B)  the exception for consumer tasting or sampling at retail establishments
provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.95; and
(C)  the exception for participation in retailer association activities
provided in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.100.
(iii)  To the extent required by 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.81(b) an industry member
shall keep and maintain a record:
(A)  of all items furnished to a retailer;
(B)  on premises of the industry member; and
(C)  for a three-year period.
(c) A sample of liquor may be provided to the department under the following
conditions:
(i)  This Subsection (4)(c) includes a sample of:
(A)  wine;
(B)  heavy beer; or
(C)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage.
(ii)  With the department's permission, an industry member may submit
department samples to the department for product testing, analysis, and
sampling.
(iii)  No more than two department samples of a particular type, vintage, and
production lot of a particular branded product may be submitted to the
department for department testing, analysis, and sampling within a consecutive
120-day period.
(iv) (A)  A sample of liquor may not exceed 1 liter.
(B) Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(c)(iv)(A), a sample of the following may
not exceed 1.5 liters unless that exact product is only commercially packaged
in a larger size, not to exceed 5 liters:
(I)  wine;
(II)  heavy beer; or
(III)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage.
(v) (A)  A department sample submitted to the department:
(I)  shall be shipped prepaid by the industry member by common carrier; and
(II)  may not be shipped by United States mail directly to the department's
central administrative warehouse office.
(B)  A department sample may not be shipped to any other location within the
state.
(vi)  A department sample submitted to the department shall be accompanied by
a letter from the industry member:
(A)  clearly identifying the product as a "department sample"; and
(B)  clearly stating the FOB case price of the product.
(vii) (A)  The department may transfer listed items from current stock for use
as comparison control samples or to verify product spoilage as considered
appropriate.
(B)  Each sample transferred under Subsection (4)(c)(vi)(A) shall be charged
back to the respective industry member.
(viii)  The department shall:
(A)  account for, label, and record all department samples received or
transferred;
(B)  account for the department sample's disposition; and
(C)  maintain a record:
(I)  of the samples and their disposition; and
(II)  for a two-year period.
(ix)  The department shall affix to each bottle or container a label clearly
identifying the product as a "department sample".
(x)  A department sample delivered to the department or transferred from the
department's current stock shall be disposed of at the discretion of the
department in one of the following ways:
(A)  tested and analyzed with the remaining contents destroyed under
controlled and audited conditions established by the department;
(B)  entire contents destroyed under controlled and audited conditions
established by the department; or
(C)  added to the inventory of the department for sale to the public.
(xi)  Persons other than authorized department officials may not be in
possession of department samples except as otherwise provided.
(d)  Samples of beer may be provided by a beer industry member to a retailer
under the conditions listed in this Subsection (4)(d).
(i)  Samples of beer may be provided by an industry member only to a retailer
who has not purchased the brand of beer from that industry member within the
last 12 months.
(ii)  For each retailer, the industry member may give not more than three
gallons of any brand of beer, except that if a particular product is not
available in a size within the quantity limitation an industry member may
furnish the next largest size.
(e)  Educational seminars may involve an industry member under the conditions
listed in this Subsection (4)(e).
(i)  An industry member may provide or participate in educational seminars:
(A)  involving:
(I)  the department;
(II)  retailers;
(III)  holders of educational or scientific special use permits;
(IV)  other industry members; or
(V)  employees of the persons listed in Subsections (4)(e)(i)(A)(I) through
(IV); and
(B)  regarding such topics as:
(I)  merchandising and product knowledge;
(II)  use of equipment; and
(III)  tours of alcoholic beverage manufacturing facilities.
(ii)  An industry member may not pay a department employee's, retailer's, or
permittee's expenses or compensate them for attending a seminar or tour
described in Subsection (4)(e)(i).
(iii) (A)  A liquor industry member for purposes of this Subsection
(4)(e)(iii) includes an industry member for:
(I)  wine;
(II)  heavy beer; and
(III)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage.
(B)  A liquor industry member may conduct a tasting of the industry member's
liquor products:
(I)  for the department, at the department's request; and
(II)  for licensed industry representatives, but only at the department's
central administrative warehouse office.
(C)  The industry member may only use department or industry representative
samples when conducting any tasting of the industry member's products.
(iv)  A beer industry member may conduct tastings of beer products for a
licensed beer retailer either at:
(A)  the industry member's premises; or
(B)  a retail establishment.
(v)  Except to the extent authorized by commission rule, an alcoholic beverage
industry member may not conduct tasting or sampling activities with:
(A)  a retailer; or
(B)  a member of the general public.
(f)  A beer industry member may participate in beer retailer association
activities to the extent authorized by 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.100.
(g) (i)  An industry member may contribute to charitable, civic, religious,
fraternal, educational, or community activities.
(ii)  A contribution described in Subsection (4)(g)(i) may not be given to
influence a retailer in the selection of the alcoholic beverage products that
may be sold at these activities and events.
(iii)  An industry member or retailer violates this section if:
(A)  the industry member's contribution described in Subsection (4)(g)(i)
influences, directly or indirectly, the retailer in the selection of alcoholic
beverage products; and
(B)  a competitor's alcoholic beverage products are excluded in whole or in
part from sale at the activity or event.
(h) (i)  An industry member may lease or furnish equipment listed in
Subsection (4)(h)(ii) to a retailer if:
(A)  the equipment is leased or furnished for a special event;
(B)  a reasonable rental or service fee is charged for the equipment; and
(C)  the period for which the equipment is leased or furnished does not exceed
30 days.
(ii)  This Subsection (4)(h) applies to the following equipment:
(A)  a picnic pump;
(B)  a cold plate;
(C)  a tub;
(D)  a keg box;
(E)  a refrigerated trailer;
(F)  a refrigerated van; or
(G)  a refrigerated draft system.
(i) (i)  A liquor industry member for purposes of this Subsection (4)(i)
includes an industry member for:
(A)  wine;
(B)  heavy beer; or
(C)  on or after October 1, 2008, a flavored malt beverage.
(ii)  A liquor industry member may assist the department in:
(A)  ordering, shipping, and delivering merchandise;
(B)  new product notification;
(C)  listing and delisting information;
(D)  price quotations;
(E)  product sales analysis;
(F)  shelf management; and
(G)  educational seminars.
(iii) (A)  Subject to Subsection (4)(i)(iii)(B), a liquor industry member may,
for the purpose of acquiring new listings:
(I)  solicit orders from the department; and
(II)  submit to the department samples of their products under Subsection
(4)(c) and price lists.
(B)  An industry member may not solicit either in person, by mail, or
otherwise, any state store personnel for the purpose or with the intent of
furthering the sale of a particular brand or brands of alcoholic beverage
product as against another brand or brands.
(iv) (A)  Any visitations to a state store or package agency by an industry
member shall be confined to the customer areas of the store unless otherwise
approved.
(B)  Calls on the state warehouse by industry members are to be confined to
the office area only unless otherwise approved.
(v)  A beer industry member may assist licensed retailers in:
(A)  ordering, shipping, and delivering beer merchandise;
(B)  new product notification;
(C)  listing and delisting information;
(D)  price quotations;
(E)  product sales analysis;
(F)  shelf management; and
(G)  educational seminars.
(vi)  A beer industry member may, for the purpose of acquiring new listings:
(A)  solicit orders from licensed retailers; and
(B)  submit to licensed retailers samples of their beer products under
Subsection (4)(c) and price lists.
(5)  It is unlawful for any industry member, directly or indirectly or through
an affiliate, to induce any retailer to purchase any alcoholic beverages from
the industry member or from the department to the exclusion in whole or in
part of any of those products sold or offered for sale by other persons by
paying or crediting the retailer for any advertising, display, or distribution
service:
(a)  as defined in and to the extent restricted by 27 C.F.R. Sections 6.51
through 6.56; and
(b)  subject to the exceptions:
(i)  for newspaper cuts listed in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.92; and
(ii)  for advertising services listed in 27 C.F.R. Sec. 6.98.
(6)  It is unlawful for any industry member, directly or indirectly or through
an affiliate, to  induce any retailer to purchase any alcoholic beverages from
the industry member or from the department to the exclusion in whole or in
part of any of those products sold or offered for sale by other persons by
guaranteeing any loan or the repayment of any financial obligation of the
retailer.
(7) (a)  It is unlawful for any industry member, directly or indirectly or
through an affiliate, to induce any retailer to purchase any beer from the
industry member to the exclusion in whole or in part of any beer products sold
or offered for sale by other persons by extending to any retailer credit for a
period in excess of 15 days from the date of delivery to the date of full
legal discharge of the retailer through the payment of cash or its equivalent,
from all indebtedness arising from the transaction, so long as that beer
purchased or delivered during the first 15 days of any month is paid for in
cash or its equivalent on or before the 25th day of the same month, and beer
purchased or delivered after the 15th day of any month is paid for in cash or
its equivalent on or before the 10th day of the next succeeding month.
(b)  First party in-state checks are considered cash payment if the checks:
(i)  are honored on presentment; and
(ii)  received under the terms prescribed in Subsection (7)(a).
(c)  An extension of credit for product purchased by an industry member to a
retailer whose account is in arrears does not constitute a violation of
Subsection (7)(a) if the retailer pays in advance or on delivery an amount
equal to or greater than the value of each order, regardless of the manner in
which the industry member applies the payment in its records.
(8) (a)  It is unlawful for any industry member, directly or indirectly or
through an affiliate, to induce any retailer to purchase any alcoholic
beverages from the industry member or from the department to the exclusion in
whole or in part of any of those products sold or offered for sale by other
persons by requiring:
(i)  the department to take and dispose of a certain quota of any alcoholic
products; or
(ii)  a beer retailer to take and dispose of a certain quota of any beer
products.
(b) (i)  It is an unlawful means to induce to require:
(A)  the department to purchase one product in order to purchase another; or
(B)  a beer retailer to purchase one beer product in order to purchase
another.
(ii)  This Subsection (8)(b) includes:
(A)  the requirement to take a minimum quantity of a product in standard
packaging in order to obtain the same product in some type of premium package
such as:
(I)  a distinctive decanter; or
(II)  a wooden or tin box; or
(B)  combination sales if one or more products may be purchased only in
combination with other products and not individually.
(c)  This Subsection (8) does not preclude the selling, at a special
combination price, two or more kinds or brands of products so long as the
department or beer retailer:
(i)  has the option of purchasing either product at the usual price; and
(ii)  is not required to purchase any product the department or beer retailer
does not want.
(d)  An industry member may package and distribute alcoholic beverages in
combination with other nonalcoholic items or products.
(e)  The combination package shall be designed to be delivered intact to the
consumer and the additional cost incurred by the industry member shall be
included in the cost to the department or beer retailer.
