70A-2a-103.   Definitions -- Index of definitions.
(1)  In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)  "Buyer in ordinary course of business" means a person, who in good faith
and without knowledge that the sale to him is in violation of the ownership
rights or security interest or leasehold interest of a third party in the
goods, buys in ordinary course from a person in the business of selling goods
of that kind, but does not include a pawnbroker.  "Buying" may be for cash or
by exchange of other property or on secured or unsecured credit and includes
acquiring goods or documents of title under a preexisting contract for sale,
but does not include a transfer in bulk, or as security for, or in total or
partial satisfaction of a money debt.
(b)  "Cancellation" occurs when either party puts an end to the lease contract
for default by the other party.
(c)  "Commercial unit" means a unit of goods which by commercial usage is a
single whole for purposes of lease, and the division of which materially
impairs its character or value on the market or in use.  A commercial unit may
be a single article, such as a machine, or a set of articles, such as a suite
of furniture or a line of machinery, or a quantity, such as a gross or
carload, or any other unit treated in use or in the relevant market as a
single whole.
(d)  "Conforming goods or performance under a lease contract" means goods or
performance that are in accordance with the obligations under the lease
contract.
(e)  "Consumer lease" means a lease that a lessor, regularly engaged in the
business of leasing or selling, makes to a lessee, who is an individual and
who takes under the lease primarily for a personal, family, or household
purpose.
(f)  "Fault" means wrongful act, omission, breach, or default.
(g)  "Finance lease" means a lease in which:
(i)  the lessor does not select, manufacture, or supply the goods;
(ii)  the lessor acquires the goods or the right to possession and use of the
goods in connection with the lease; and
(iii)  one of the following occurs:
(A)  the lessee receives a copy of the contract by which the lessor acquired
the goods or the right to possession and use of the goods before signing the
lease contract;
(B)  the lessee's approval of the contract by which the lessor acquired the
goods or the right to possession and use of the goods is a condition to
effectiveness of the lease contract;
(C)  the lessee, before signing the lease contract, receives an accurate and
complete statement designating the promises and warranties, and any
disclaimers of warranties, limitations, or modifications of remedies, or
liquidated damages, including those of a third party, such as the manufacturer
of the goods, provided to the lessor by the person supplying the goods in
connection with or as part of the contract by which the lessor acquired the
goods or the right to possession and use of the goods; or
(D)  if the lease is not a consumer lease, the lessor, before the lessee signs
the lease contract, informs the lessee in writing:
(I)  of the identity of the person supplying the goods to the lessor, unless
the lessee has selected that person and directed the lessor to acquire the
goods or the right to possession and use of the goods from that person;
(II)  that the lessee is entitled under this chapter to the promises and
warranties, including those of any third party, provided to the lessor by the
person supplying the goods in connection with or as part of the contract by
which the lessor acquired the goods or the right to possession and use of the
goods; and
(III)  that the lessee may communicate with the person supplying the goods to
the lessor and receive an accurate and complete statement of those promises
and warranties, including any disclaimers and limitations of them or of
remedies.
(h)  "Goods" means all things that are movable at the time of identification
to the lease contract, or are fixtures.  The term does not include money,
documents, instruments, accounts, chattel paper, general intangibles, or
minerals or the like, including oil and gas, before extraction.  The term also
includes the unborn young of animals.
(i)  "Installment lease contract" means a lease contract that authorizes or
requires the delivery of goods in separate lots to be separately accepted,
even though the lease contract contains a clause stating "each delivery is a
separate lease" or its equivalent.
(j)  "Lease" means a transfer of the right to possession and use of goods for
a term, in return for consideration.  Unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, the term includes a sublease.  But a sale, including a sale on
approval or a sale or return, or retention or creation of a security interest
is not a lease.
(k)  "Lease agreement" with respect to the lease, means the bargain of the
lessor and the lessee in fact as found in their language or by implication
from other circumstances including course of dealing or usage of trade or
course of performance as provided in this chapter.  Unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise, the term includes a sublease agreement.
(l)  "Lease contract" means the total legal obligation that results from the
lease agreement as affected by this chapter and any other applicable rules of
law.  Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term includes a
sublease contract.
(m)  "Leasehold interest" means the interest of the lessor or the lessee under
a lease contract.
(n)  "Lessee" means a person who acquires the right to possession and use of
goods under a lease.  Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term
includes a sublessee.
(o)  "Lessee in ordinary course of business" means a person who in good faith
and without knowledge that the lease to him is in violation of the ownership
rights, security interest, or leasehold interest of a third party in the
goods, leases in ordinary course from a person in the business of selling or
leasing goods of that kind, but does not include a pawnbroker.  "Leasing" may
be for cash or by exchange of other property, or on secured or unsecured
credit, and includes acquiring goods or documents of title under a preexisting
lease contract.  "Leasing" does not include a transfer in bulk or as security
for or in total or partial satisfaction of a money debt.
(p)  "Lessor" means a person who transfers the right to possession and use of
goods under a lease.  Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term
includes a sublessor.
(q)  "Lessor's residual interest" means the lessor's interest in the goods
after expiration, termination, or cancellation of the lease contract.
(r)  "Lien" means a charge against or interest in goods to secure payment of a
debt or performance of an obligation, but the term does not include a security
interest.
(s)  "Lot" means a parcel or single article that is the subject matter of a
separate lease or delivery, whether or not it is sufficient to perform the
lease contract.
(t)  "Merchant lessee" means a lessee that is a merchant with respect to goods
of the kind subject to the lease.
(u)  "Present value" means the amount as of a date certain of one or more sums
payable in the future, discounted to the date certain.  The discount is
determined by the interest rate specified by the parties if the rate was not
manifestly unreasonable at the time the transaction was entered into;
otherwise, the discount is determined by a commercially reasonable rate that
takes into account the facts and circumstances of each case at the time the
transaction was entered into.
(v)  "Purchase" includes taking by sale, lease, mortgage, security interest,
pledge, gift, or any other voluntary transaction creating an interest in
goods.
(w)  "Sublease" means a lease of goods, the right to possession and use of
which was acquired by the lessor as a lessee under an existing lease.
(x)  "Supplier" means a person from whom a lessor buys or leases goods to be
leased under a finance lease.
(y)  "Supply contract" means a contract under which a lessor buys or leases
goods to be leased.
(z)  "Termination" occurs when either party, pursuant to a power created by
agreement or law, puts an end to the lease contract otherwise than for
default.
(2)  Other definitions applying to this chapter and the sections in which they
appear are:
(a)  "Accessions," Section 70A-2a-310.
(b)  "Construction mortgage," Section 70A-2a-309.
(c)  "Encumbrance," Section 70A-2a-309.
(d)  "Fixtures," Section 70A-2a-309.
(e)  "Fixture filing," Section 70A-2a-309.
(f)  "Purchase money lease," Section 70A-2a-309.
(3)  The following definitions in other chapters apply to this chapter:
(a)  "Account," Subsection 70A-9a-102(2).
(b)  "Between merchants," Section 70A-2-104.
(c)  "Buyer," Section 70A-2-103.
(d)  "Chattel paper," Subsection 70A-9a-102(11).
(e)  "Consumer goods," Subsection 70A-9a-102(23).
(f)  "Document," Subsection 70A-9a-102(30).
(g)  "Entrusting," Section 70A-2-403.
(h)  "General intangible," Subsection 70A-9a-102(42).
(i)  "Good faith," Section 70A-2-103;
(j)  "Instrument," Subsection 70A-9a-102(46).
(k)  "Merchant," Section 70A-2-104.
(l)  "Mortgage," Subsection 70A-9a-102(54).
(m)  "Pursuant to commitment," Subsection 70A-9a-102(67).
(n)  "Receipt," Section 70A-2-103.
(o)  "Sale," Section 70A-2-106.
(p)  "Sale on approval," Section 70A-2-326.
(q)  "Sale or return," Section 70A-2-326.
(r)  "Seller," Section 70A-2-103.
(4)  In addition, Title 70A, Chapter 1a, Uniform Commercial Code - General
Provisions, contains general definitions and principles of construction and
interpretation applicable throughout this chapter.
