70A-2a-516.   Effect of acceptance of goods -- Notice of default -- Burden
of establishing default after acceptance -- Notice of claim or litigation to
person answerable over.
(1)  A lessee must pay rent for any goods accepted in accordance with the
lease contract, with due allowance for goods rightfully rejected or not
delivered.
(2)  A lessee's acceptance of goods precludes rejection of the goods accepted.
In the case of a finance lease other than a consumer lease in which the
supplier assisted in the preparation of the lease contract or participated in
negotiating the terms of the lease contract with the lessor, if made with
knowledge of a nonconformity, acceptance cannot be revoked because of it.  In
any other case, if made with knowledge of a nonconformity, acceptance cannot
be revoked because of it unless the acceptance was on the reasonable
assumption that the nonconformity would be seasonably cured.  Acceptance does
not of itself impair any other remedy provided by this chapter or the lease
agreement for nonconformity.
(3)  If a tender has been accepted:
(a)  within a reasonable time after the lessee discovers or should have
discovered any default, the lessee shall notify the lessor, or be barred from
any remedy against the lessor, and, in addition, in the case of a finance
lease, the lessee shall notify the supplier or be barred from any remedy
against the supplier;
(b)  within a reasonable time after the lessee receives notice of litigation
for infringement or the like, as provided in Section 70A-2a-211, the lessee
shall notify the lessor or be barred from any remedy for liability established
by the litigation; and
(c)  the burden is on the lessee to establish any default.
(4)  If a lessee is sued for breach of a warranty or other obligation for
which a lessor or a supplier is answerable over, the following apply:
(a)  The lessee may give the lessor or the supplier, or both, written notice
of the litigation.  If the notice states that the lessor or the supplier may
come in and defend and that if the lessor or the supplier does not do so, he
will be bound in any action against him by the lessee by any determination of
fact common to the two litigations, unless the lessor or the supplier, after
seasonable receipt of the notice, does come in and so defend.
(b)  The lessor or the supplier may demand in writing that the lessee turn
over control of the litigation, including settlement if the claim is one for
infringement or the like as provided in Section 70A-2a-211, or else be barred
from any remedy.  If the demand states that the lessor or the supplier agrees
to bear all expense and to satisfy any adverse judgment, then, unless the
lessee after seasonable receipt of the demand does turn over control, the
lessee is so barred.
(5)  Subsections (3) and (4) apply to any obligation of a lessee to hold the
lessor or the supplier harmless against infringement or the like as provided
in Section 70A-2a-211.
