58-15-2.   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in Section 58-1-102, as used in this chapter:

(1)  "Administrator" means a person who is charged with the general administration of a health facility, regardless of whether that person has an ownership interest in the facility and whether his functions and duties are shared with one or more persons.

(2)  "Board" means the Health Facility Administrators Licensing Board created in Section 58-15-3.

(3)  "Health facility" means a skilled nursing facility, an intermediate care facility, or an intermediate care facility for people with an intellectual disability.

(4)  "Intermediate care facility" means an institution which provides, on a regular basis, health care and services to persons who do not require the degree of care and treatment a hospital or skilled nursing facility provide, but who require health care and services in addition to room and board.

(5)  "Intermediate care facility for people with an intellectual disability" means an institution which provides, on a regular basis, health-related care and service to mentally retarded individuals or persons with related conditions, who do not require the degree of care and treatment a hospital or skilled nursing facility provide, but who require health-related care and services above the need for room and board.

(6)  "Skilled nursing facility" means an institution primarily providing inpatients with skilled nursing care and related services on a continuing basis for patients who require mental, medical, or nursing care, or service for the rehabilitation of an injured person, a sick person, or a person with a disability.

(7)  "Unprofessional conduct" as defined in Section 58-1-501 and as may be further defined by rule includes:

(a)  intentionally filing a false report or record, intentionally failing to file a report or record required by state or federal law, or wilfully impeding or obstructing the filing of a required report.  These reports or records only include those which are signed in the capacity of a licensed health facility administrator; and

(b)  acting in a manner inconsistent with the health and safety of the patients of the health facility in which he is the administrator.



Amended by Chapter 366, 2011 General Session

