22-3-409.   Receipts normally apportioned -- Deferred compensation,
annuities, and similar payments.
(1)  As used in this section:
(a)  "Payment"  means a payment that a trustee may receive over a fixed number
of years or during the life of one or more individuals because of services
rendered or property transferred to the payer in exchange for future payments.
The term includes a payment made in money or property from the payer's general
assets or from a separate fund created by the payer.  For the purposes of
Subsections (4), (5), (6), and (7), the term also includes any payment from a
separate fund, regardless of the reason for the payment.
(b)  "Separate fund" includes a private or commercial annuity, an individual
retirement account, and a pension, profit-sharing, stock-bonus, or stock-
ownership plan.
(2)  To the extent that a payment is characterized as interest, a dividend or
a payment made in lieu of interest or a dividend, a trustee shall allocate the
payment to income.  The trustee shall allocate to principal the balance of the
payment and any other payment received in the same accounting period that is
not characterized as interest, a dividend, or an equivalent payment.
(3)  If no part of a payment is characterized as interest, a dividend, or an
equivalent payment, and all or part of the payment is required to be made, a
trustee shall allocate to income 10% of the part that is required to be made
during the accounting period and the balance to principal.  If no part of a
payment is required to be made or the payment received is the entire amount to
which the trustee is entitled, the trustee shall allocate the entire payment
to principal.  For purposes of this Subsection (3), a payment is not "required
to be made" to the extent that it is made because the trustee exercises a
right of withdrawal.
(4)  Except as otherwise provided in Subsection (5), Subsections (6) and (7)
apply, and Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply, in determining the allocation
of a payment made from a separate fund to:
(a)  a trust to which an election to qualify for a marital deduction under
Section 2056(b)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 has been made; or
(b)  a trust that qualifies for the marital deduction under Section 2056(b)(5)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(5)  Subsections (4), (6), and (7) do not apply if and to the extent that the
series of payments would, without the application of Subsection (4), qualify
for the marital deduction under Section 2056(b)(7)(C) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986.
(6)  A trustee shall determine the internal income of each separate fund for
the accounting period as if the separate fund were a trust subject to this
chapter.  Upon request of the surviving spouse, the trustee shall demand of
the person administering the separate fund that this internal income be
distributed to the trust.  The trustee shall allocate a payment from the
separate fund to income to the extent of the internal income of the separate
fund and distribute that amount to the surviving spouse.  The trustee shall
allocate the balance to principal.  Upon request of the surviving spouse, the
trustee shall allocate principal to income to the extent the internal income
of the separate fund exceeds payments made from the separate fund to the trust
during the accounting period.
(7)  If a trustee cannot determine the internal income of a separate fund but
can determine the value of the separate fund, the internal income of the
separate fund is considered to equal 4% of the fund's value, according to the
most recent statement of value preceding the beginning of the accounting
period.  If the trustee can determine neither the internal income of the
separate fund nor the fund's value, the internal income of the fund is
considered to equal the product of the interest rate and the present value of
the expected future payments, as determined under Section 7520 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 for the month preceding the accounting period for which
the computation is made.
(8)  This section does not apply to a payment to which Section 22-3-410
applies.
