54-10a-202.   Committee of Consumer Services.
(1) (a)  There is created within the office a committee known as the
"Committee of Consumer Services."
(b) A member of the committee shall maintain the member's principal residence
within Utah.
(2) (a)  The governor shall appoint nine members to the committee subject to
Subsection (3).
(b)  Except as required by Subsection (2)(c), as terms of current committee
members expire, the governor shall appoint a new member or reappointed member
to a four-year term.
(c)  Notwithstanding the requirements of Subsection (2)(b), the governor
shall, at the time of appointment or reappointment, adjust the length of terms
to ensure that the terms of committee members are staggered so that
approximately half of the committee is appointed every two years.
(d)  When a vacancy occurs in the membership for any reason, the governor
shall appoint a replacement for the unexpired term.
(3)  Members of the committee shall represent the following geographic and
consumer interests:
(a)  one member shall be from Salt Lake City, Provo, or Ogden;
(b)  one member shall be from a city other than Salt Lake City, Provo, or
Ogden;
(c)  one member shall be from an unincorporated area of the state;
(d)  one member shall be a low-income resident;
(e)  one member shall be a retired person;
(f)  one member shall be a small commercial consumer;
(g)  one member shall be a farmer or rancher who uses electric power to pump
water in the member's farming or ranching operation;
(h)  one member shall be a residential consumer; and
(i)  one member shall be appointed to provide geographic diversity on the
committee to ensure to the extent possible that all areas of the state are
represented.
(4) (a)   No more than five members of the committee shall be from the same
political party.
(b)  Subject to Subsection (3), for a member of the committee appointed on or
after May 12, 2009, the governor shall appoint, to the extent possible, an
individual with expertise or experience in:
(i)  public utility matters related to consumers;
(ii)  economics;
(iii)  accounting;
(iv)  financing;
(v)  engineering; or
(vi)  public utilities law.
(5)  The governor shall designate one member as chair of the committee.
(6) (a)  A member of the committee may not receive compensation or benefits
for the member's services, but may receive per diem and expenses incurred in
the performance of the member's official duties at the rates established by
the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(b)  A member may decline to receive per diem and expenses for the member's
service.
(7) (a)  The committee may hold monthly meetings.
(b)  The committee may hold other meetings, at the times and places the chair
and a majority of the committee determine.
(8) (a)  Five members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee.
(b)  A majority of members voting when a quorum is present constitutes an
action of the committee.
