53B-18-1201.   Utah State University Eastern.

(1) (a)  There is established a comprehensive regional college of Utah State University called Utah State University Eastern.

(b)  Utah State University shall:

(i)  possess all rights, title, privileges, powers, immunities, franchises, endowments, property, and claims of the College of Eastern Utah; and

(ii)  fulfill and perform all obligations of Utah State University Eastern, including obligations relating to outstanding bonds and notes.

(2)  Utah State University Eastern contains campuses in the following locations:

(a)  Price, Utah; and

(b)  Blanding, Utah.

(3) (a)  Utah State University Eastern is under the authority and direction of the Utah State University president and Utah State University board of trustees.

(b) (i)  The governor shall appoint nine individuals to the Utah State University board of trustees with the consent of the Senate.

(ii)  One of the nine individuals described in Subsection (3)(b)(i) shall reside in the Utah State University Eastern service region.

(c)  The board shall establish a policy defining the service region.

(4) (a)  Utah State University Eastern shall be administered by a chancellor.

(b)  The chancellor of Utah State University Eastern is appointed by the president of Utah State University and reports directly to the president of Utah State University.

(5) (a)  The president of Utah State University shall appoint a regional advisory council to advise the president and chancellor regarding local issues relating to the college.

(b)  The chancellor shall provide the Utah State University president with recommendations for the regional advisory council.

(c)  The regional advisory council:

(i)  shall include the Utah State University Eastern Student Association president; and

(ii)  may include:

(A)  residents of the counties in the Utah State University Eastern service region, as defined by board policy; and

(B)  alumni of Utah State University Eastern.

(6)  Utah State University Eastern is the legal entity that was formerly known as Utah State University - College of Eastern Utah. Utah State University - College of Eastern Utah was the legal entity that was formerly known as College of Eastern Utah.



Amended by Chapter 465, 2013 General Session

