26-50-202.   Traumatic Brain Injury Advisory Committee -- Membership -- Time
limit.
(1)  On or after July 1 of each year, the executive director may create a
Traumatic Brain Injury Advisory Committee of not more than nine members.
(2)  The committee shall be composed of members of the community who are
familiar with traumatic brain injury, its causes, diagnosis, treatment,
rehabilitation, and support services, including:
(a)  persons with a traumatic brain injury;
(b)  family members of a person with a traumatic brain injury;
(c)  representatives of an association which advocates for persons with
traumatic brain injuries;
(d)  specialists in a profession that works with brain injury patients; and
(e)  department representatives.
(3)  The department shall provide staff support to the committee.
(4) (a)  If a vacancy occurs in the committee membership for any reason, a
replacement may be appointed for the unexpired term.
(b)  The committee shall elect a chairperson from the membership.
(c)  A majority of the committee constitutes a quorum at any meeting, and, if
a quorum exists, the action of the majority of members present shall be the
action of the committee.
(d)  The committee may adopt bylaws governing the committee's activities.
(e)  A committee member may be removed by the executive director:
(i)  if the member is unable or unwilling to carry out the member's assigned
responsibilities; or
(ii)  for good cause.
(5)  The committee shall comply with the procedures and requirements of:
(a)  Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act; and
(b)  Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act.
(6) (a)  Members shall receive no compensation or benefits for their services,
but may, at the executive director's discretion, receive per diem and expenses
incurred in the performance of the members' official duties at the rates
established by the Division of Finance under Sections 63A-3-106 and 63A-3-107.
(b)  Members may decline to receive per diem and expenses for their service.
(7)  Not later than November 30 of each year the committee shall provide a
written report summarizing the activities of the committee to:
(a)  the executive director of the department;
(b)  the Health and Human Services Interim Committee; and
(c)  the Health and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee.
(8)  The committee shall cease to exist on December 31 of each year, unless
the executive director determines it necessary to continue.
