59-1-402.   Interest.
(1)  Notwithstanding Subsections (2) and (3), the rate of interest applicable
to certain installment sales for the purposes of the corporate franchise tax
shall be determined pursuant to Section 453A, Internal Revenue Code, as
provided in Section 59-7-112.
(2)  Except as otherwise provided for by law, the interest rate for a calendar
year for all taxes and fees administered by the commission shall be calculated
based on the federal short-term rate determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury under Section 6621, Internal Revenue Code, and in effect for the
preceding fourth calendar quarter.
(3)  The interest rate calculation shall be as follows:
(a)  except as provided in Subsection (6), in the case of overpayments and
refunds, simple interest shall be calculated at the rate of two percentage
points above the federal short-term rate; or
(b)  in the case of underpayments, deficiencies, and delinquencies, simple
interest shall be calculated at the rate of two percentage points above the
federal short-term rate.
(4) (a)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(c), if any overpayment of tax or
fee administered by the commission is refunded within 90 days after the last
date prescribed for filing the return of such tax or fee, no interest shall be
allowed on the overpayment.
(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (4)(c), if the return is filed after the
last date prescribed for filing the return, no interest shall be allowed on
the overpayment if the overpayment is refunded within 90 days after the date
the return is filed.
(c) (i)  Notwithstanding Subsection (4)(a) or (b), in the case of an amended
return, interest on an overpayment shall be allowed:
(A)  for a time period:
(I)  that begins on the later of:
(Aa)  the date the original return was filed; or
(Bb)  the due date for filing the original return not including any extensions
for filing the original return; and
(II)  that ends on the date the commission receives the amended return; and
(B)  if the commission does not make a refund of an overpayment under this
Subsection (4)(c) within a 90-day period after the date the commission
receives the amended return, for a time period:
(I)  that begins 91 days after the commission receives the amended return; and
(II)  subject to Subsection (4)(c)(ii), that ends on the date that the
commission completes processing the refund of the overpayment.
(ii)  For purposes of Subsection (4)(c)(i)(B)(II), interest shall be
calculated forward from the preparation date of the refund document to allow
for processing.
(5)  Interest on any underpayment, deficiency, or delinquency of any tax or
fee administered by the commission shall be computed from the time the
original return is due, excluding any filing or payment extensions, to the
date the payment is received.
(6) (a)  Notwithstanding Subsection (3)(a), interest on refunds may not be
paid on any overpayment that arises from a statute that is determined to be
invalid under state or federal law or declared unconstitutional under the
constitution of the United States or Utah if the basis for the refund is the
retroactive application of a judicial decision upholding the claim of
unconstitutionality or the invalidation of a statute.
(b)  For purposes of this Subsection (6):
(i)  "final judicial decision" means a final ruling by a court of this state
or the United States for which the time for any further review or proceeding
has expired; and
(ii)  "retroactive application of a judicial decision" means the application
of a final judicial decision that:
(A)  invalidates a state or federal taxation statute; and
(B)  requires the state to provide refunds for overpayments that were made:
(I)  prior to the final judicial decision; or
(II)  during the 180-day period after the final judicial decision.
(7)  This section does not apply to:
(a)  Title 41, Chapter 1a, Motor Vehicle Act, except for Section 41-1a-301;
(b)  Title 41, Chapter 3, Motor Vehicle Business Regulation Act;
(c)  Chapter 2, Property Tax Act, except for Section 59-2-1309;
(d)  Chapter 3, Tax Equivalent Property Act;
(e)  Chapter 4, Privilege Tax; or
(f)  Chapter 13, Part 5, Interstate Agreements.
