59-1-801.   Purpose of compact -- Definitions -- Elements of income tax laws
-- Division of income -- Elements of sales and use tax laws -- The commission
-- Uniform regulations and forms -- Interstate audits -- Arbitration -- Entry
into force and withdrawal -- Effect on other laws and jurisdiction --
Construction and severability.
The "Multistate Tax Compact" is hereby enacted into law and entered into with
all jurisdictions legally joining therein, in the form substantially as
follows:

ARTICLE I.  PURPOSES
The purposes of this compact are to:
1.  Facilitate proper determination of state and local tax liability of
multistate taxpayers, including the equitable apportionment of tax bases and
settlement of apportionment disputes.
2.  Promote uniformity or compatibility in significant components of tax
systems.
3.  Facilitate taxpayer convenience and compliance in the filing of tax
returns and in other phases of tax administration.
4.  Avoid duplicative taxation.

ARTICLE II.  DEFINITIONS
As used in this compact:
1.  "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United
States.
2.  "Subdivision" means any governmental unit or special district of a state.
3.  "Taxpayer" means any corporation, partnership, firm, association,
governmental unit or agency, or person acting as a business entity in more
than one state.
4.  "Income tax" means a tax imposed on or measured by net income including
any tax imposed on or measured by an amount arrived at by deducting expenses
from gross income, one or more forms of which expenses are not specifically
and directly related to particular transactions.
5.  "Capital stock tax" means a tax measured in any way by the capital of a
corporation considered in its entirety.
6.  "Gross receipts tax" means a tax, other than a sales tax, which is imposed
on or measured by the gross volume of business, in terms of gross receipts or
in other terms, and in the determination of which no deduction is allowed
which would constitute the tax an income tax.
7.  "Sales tax" means a tax imposed with respect to the transfer for a
consideration of ownership, possession, or custody of tangible personal
property or the rendering of services measured by the price of the tangible
personal property transferred or services rendered and which is required by
state or local law to be separately stated from the sales price by the seller,
or which is customarily separately stated from the sales price, but does not
include a tax imposed exclusively on the sale of a specifically identified
commodity or article or class of commodities or articles.
8.  "Use tax" means a nonrecurring tax, other than a sales tax, which (a) is
imposed on or with respect to the exercise or enjoyment of any right or power
over tangible personal property incident to the ownership, possession, or
custody of that property or the leasing of that property from another
including any consumption, keeping, retention, or other use of tangible
personal property, and (b) is complementary to a sales tax.
9.  "Tax" means an income tax, capital stock tax, gross receipts tax, sales
tax, use tax, and any other tax which has a multistate impact, except that the
provisions of Articles III, IV, and V of this compact shall apply only to the
taxes specifically designated therein and the provisions of Article IX of this
compact shall apply only in respect to determinations pursuant to Article IV.

ARTICLE III.  ELEMENTS OF INCOME TAX LAWS
Taxpayer Option, State
and Local Taxes
1.  Any taxpayer subject to an income tax whose income is subject to
apportionment and allocation for tax purposes pursuant to the laws of a party
state or pursuant to the laws of subdivisions in two or more party states may
elect to apportion and allocate his income in the manner provided by the laws
of such state or by the laws of such states and subdivisions without reference
to this compact, or may elect to apportion and allocate in accordance with
Article IV.  This election for any tax year may be made in all party states or
subdivisions thereof or in any one or more of the party states or subdivisions
thereof without reference to the election made in the others.  For the
purposes of this paragraph, taxes imposed by subdivisions shall be considered
separately from state taxes and the apportionment and allocation also may be
applied to the entire tax base.  In no instance wherein Article IV is employed
for all subdivisions of a state may the sum of all apportionments and
allocations to subdivisions within a state be greater than the apportionment
and allocation that would be assignable to that state if the apportionment or
allocation were being made with respect to a state income tax.
Taxpayer Option, Short Form
2.  Each party state or any subdivision thereof which imposes an income tax
shall provide by law that any taxpayer required to file a return, whose only
activities within the taxing jurisdiction consist of sales and do not include
owning or renting real estate or tangible personal property, and whose dollar
volume of gross sales made during the tax year within the state or
subdivision, as the case may be, is not in excess of $100,000, may elect to
report and pay any tax due on the basis of a percentage of such volume, and
shall adopt rates which shall produce a tax which reasonably approximates the
tax otherwise due.  The Multistate Tax Commission, not more than once in five
years, may adjust the $100,000 figure in order to reflect such changes as may
occur in the real value of the dollar, and such adjusted figure, upon the
adoption by the commission, shall replace the $100,000 figure specifically
provided herein.  Each party state and subdivision thereof may make the same
election available to taxpayers additional to those specified in this
paragraph.
Coverage
3.  Nothing in this article relates to the reporting or payment of any tax
other than an income tax.

ARTICLE IV.  DIVISION OF INCOME
1.  As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)  "Business income" means income arising from transactions and activity in
the regular course of the taxpayer's trade or business and includes income
from tangible and intangible property if the acquisition, management, and
disposition of the property constitute integral parts of the taxpayer's
regular trade or business operations.
(b)  "Commercial domicile" means the principal place from which the trade or
business of the taxpayer is directed or managed.
(c)  "Compensation" means wages, salaries, commissions and any other form of
remuneration paid to employees for personal services.
(d)  "Financial organization" means any bank, trust company, savings bank,
industrial bank, land bank, safe deposit company, private banker, savings and
loan association, credit union, cooperative bank, small loan company, sales
finance company, investment company, or any type of insurance company.
(e)  "Nonbusiness income" means all income other than business income.
(f)  "Public utility" means any business entity (1) which owns or operates any
plant, equipment, property, franchise, or license for the transmission of
communications, transportation of goods or persons, except by pipeline, or the
production, transmission, sale, delivery, or furnishing of electricity, water,
or steam, and (2) whose rates of charges for goods or services have been
established or approved by a federal, state, or local government or
governmental agency.
(g)  "Sales" means all gross receipts of the taxpayer not allocated under
paragraphs of this article.
(h)  "State" means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United
States, and any foreign country or political subdivision thereof.
(i)  "This state" means the state in which the relevant tax return is filed
or, in the case of application of this article to the apportionment and
allocation of income for local tax purposes, the subdivision or local taxing
district in which the relevant tax return is filed.
2.  Any taxpayer having income from business activity which is taxable both
within and without this state, shall allocate and apportion his net income as
provided in this article.
3.  For purposes of allocation and apportionment of income under this article,
a taxpayer is taxable in another state if (1) in that state he is subject to a
net income tax, a franchise tax measured by net income, a franchise tax for
the privilege of doing business, or a corporate stock tax, or (2) that state
has jurisdiction to subject the taxpayer to a net income tax regardless of
whether, in fact, the state does or does not.
4.  Rents and royalties from real or tangible personal property, capital
gains, interests, dividends, or patent or copyright royalties, to the extent
that they constitute nonbusiness income, shall be allocated as provided in
paragraphs 5 through 8 of this article.
5. (a)  Net rents and royalties from real property located in this state are
allocable to this state.
(b)  Net rents and royalties from tangible personal property are allocable to
this state (1) if and to the extent that the property is utilized in this
state, or (2) in their entirety if the taxpayer's commercial domicile is in
this state and the taxpayer is not organized under the laws of or taxable in
the state in which the property is utilized.
(c)  The extent of utilization of tangible personal property in a state is
determined by multiplying the rents and royalties by a fraction, the numerator
of which is the number of days of physical location of the property in the
state during the rental or royalty period in the taxable year and the
denominator of which is the number of days of physical location of the
property everywhere during all rental or royalty periods in the taxable year.
If the physical location of the property during the rental or royalty period
is unknown or unascertainable by the taxpayer, tangible personal property is
utilized in the state in which the property was located at the time the rental
or royalty payer obtained possession.
6. (a)  Capital gains and losses from sales of real property located in this
state are allocable to this state.
(b)  Capital gains and losses from sales of tangible personal property are
allocable to this state if (1) the property had a situs in this state at the
time of the sale, or (2) the taxpayer's commercial domicile is in this state
and the taxpayer is not taxable in the state in which the property had a
situs.
(c)  Capital gains and losses from sales of intangible personal property are
allocable to this state if the taxpayer's commercial domicile is in this
state.
7.  Interest and dividends are allocable to this state if the taxpayer's
commercial domicile is in this state.
8. (a)  Patent and copyright royalties are allocable to this state (1) if and
to the extent that the patent or copyright is utilized by the payer in this
state, or (2) if and to the extent that the patent or copyright is utilized by
the payer in a state in which the taxpayer is not taxable and the taxpayer's
commercial domicile is in this state.
(b)  A patent is utilized in a state to the extent that it is employed in
production, fabrication, manufacturing, or other processing in the state or to
the extent that a patented product is produced in the state.  If the basis of
receipts from patent royalties does not permit allocation to states or if the
accounting procedures do not reflect states of utilization, the patent is
utilized in the state in which the taxpayer's commercial domicile is located.
(c)  A copyright is utilized in a state to the extent that printing or other
publication originates in the state.  If the basis of receipts from copyright
royalties does not permit allocation to states or if the accounting procedures
do not reflect states of utilization, the copyright is utilized in the state
in which the taxpayer's commercial domicile is located.
9.  All business income shall be apportioned to this state by multiplying the
income by a fraction, the numerator of which is the property factor plus the
payroll factor plus the sales factor and the denominator of which is three.
10.  The property factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the average
value of the taxpayer's real and tangible personal property owned or rented
and used in this state during the tax period and the denominator of which is
the average value of all the taxpayer's real and tangible personal property
owned or rented and used during the tax period.
11.  Property owned by the taxpayer is valued at its original cost.  Property
rented by the taxpayer is valued at eight times the net annual rental rate.
Net annual rental rate is the annual rental rate paid by the taxpayer less any
annual rental rate received by the taxpayer from subrentals.
12.  The average value of property shall be determined by averaging the values
at the beginning and ending of the tax period but the tax administrator may
require the averaging of monthly values during the tax period if reasonably
required to reflect properly the average value of the taxpayer's property.
13.  The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid in this state during the tax period by the taxpayer for
compensation and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
everywhere during the tax period.
14.  Compensation is paid in this state if:
(a)  the individual's service is performed entirely within the state;
(b)  the individual's service is performed both within and without the state,
but the service performed without the state is incidental to the individual's
service within the state; or
(c)  some of the service is performed in the state and (1) the base of
operations or, if there is no base of operations, the place from which the
service is directed or controlled is in the state, or (2) the base of
operations or the place from which the service is directed or controlled is
not in any state in which some part of the service is performed, but the
individual's residence is in this state.
15.  The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total sales
of the taxpayer in this state during the tax period and the denominator of
which is the total sales of the taxpayer everywhere during the tax period.
16.  Sales of tangible personal property are in this state if:
(a)  the property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than the
United States government, within this state regardless of the f.o.b.  point or
other conditions of the sale; or
(b)  the property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse, factory, or
other place of storage in this state and (1) the purchaser is the United
States government, or (2) the taxpayer is not taxable in the state of the
purchaser.
17.  Sales, other than sales of tangible personal property, are in this state
if:
(a)  the income-producing activity is performed in this state; or
(b)  the income-producing activity is performed both in and outside this state
and a greater proportion of the income-producing activity is performed in this
state than in any other state, based on costs of performance.
18.  If the allocation and apportionment provisions of this article do not
fairly represent the extent of the taxpayer's business activity in this state,
the taxpayer may petition for or the tax administrator may require, in respect
to all or any part of the taxpayer's business activity, if reasonable:
(a)  separate accounting;
(b)  the exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
(c)  the inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the taxpayer's business activity in this state; or
(d)  the employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable allocation
and apportionment of the taxpayer's income.

ARTICLE V.  ELEMENTS OF SALES AND USE TAX LAWS
Tax Credit
1.  Each purchaser liable for a use tax on tangible personal property shall be
entitled to full credit for the combined amount or amounts of legally imposed
sales or use taxes paid by him with respect to the same property to another
state and any subdivision thereof.  The credit shall be applied first against
the amount of any use tax due the state, and any unused portion of the credit
shall then be applied against the amount of any use tax due a subdivision.
Exemption Certificates, Vendors May Rely
2.  Whenever a vendor receives and accepts in good faith from a purchaser a
resale or other exemption certificate or other written evidence of exemption
authorized by the appropriate state or subdivision taxing authority, the
vendor shall be relieved of liability for a sales or use tax with respect to
the transaction.

ARTICLE VI.  THE COMMISSION
Organization and Management
1. (a)  The Multistate Tax Commission is hereby established.  It shall be
composed of one "member" from each party state who shall be the head of the
state agency charged with the administration of the types of taxes to which
this compact applies.  If there is more than one such agency the state shall
provide by law for the selection of the commission member from the heads of
the relevant agencies.  State law may provide that a member of the commission
be represented by an alternate but only if there is on file with the
commission written notification of the designation and identity of the
alternate.  The attorney general of each party state or his designee, or other
counsel if the laws of the party state specifically provide, shall be entitled
to attend the meetings of the commission, but shall not vote.  Such attorneys
general, designees, or other counsel shall receive all notices of meetings
required under paragraph 1 (e) of this article.
(b)  Each party state shall provide by law for the selection of
representatives from its subdivisions affected by this compact to consult with
the commission member from that state.
(c)  Each member shall be entitled to one vote.  The commission shall not act
unless a majority of the members are present, and no action shall be binding
unless approved by a majority of the total number of members.
(d)  The commission shall adopt an official seal to be used as it may provide.
(e)  The commission shall hold an annual meeting and such other regular
meetings as its bylaws may provide and such special meetings as its executive
committee may determine.  The commission bylaws shall specify the dates of the
annual and any other regular meetings, and shall provide for the giving of
notice of annual, regular, and special meetings.  Notices of special meetings
shall include the reasons therefor and an agenda of the items to be
considered.
(f)  The commission shall elect annually, from among its members, a chairman,
a vice-chairman, and a treasurer.  The commission shall appoint an executive
director who shall serve at its pleasure, and it shall fix his duties and
compensation.  The executive director shall be secretary of the commission.
The commission shall make provision for the bonding of such of its officers
and employees as it may deem appropriate.
(g)  Irrespective of the civil service, personnel, or other merit system laws
of any party state, the executive director shall appoint or discharge such
personnel as may be necessary for the performance of the functions of the
commission and shall fix their duties and compensation.  The commission bylaws
shall provide for personnel policies and programs.
(h)  The commission may borrow, accept, or contract for the services of
personnel from any state, the United States, or any other governmental entity.
(i)  The commission may accept for any of its purposes and functions any and
all donations and grants of money, equipment, supplies, materials, and
services, conditional or otherwise, from any governmental entity, and may
utilize and dispose of the same.
(j)  The commission may establish one or more offices for the transacting of
its business.
(k)  The commission shall adopt bylaws for the conduct of its business.  The
commission shall publish its bylaws in convenient form, and shall file a copy
of the bylaws and any amendments thereto with the appropriate agency or
officer in each of the party states.
(l)  The commission annually shall make to the governor and legislature of
each party state a report covering its activities for the preceding year.  Any
donation or grant accepted by the commission or services borrowed shall be
reported in the annual report of the commission, and shall include the nature,
amount, and conditions, if any, of the donation, gift, grant, or services
borrowed and the identity of the donor or lender.  The commission may make
additional reports as it may deem desirable.
Committees
2. (a)  To assist in the conduct of its business when the full commission is
not meeting, the commission shall have an executive committee of seven
members, including the chairman, vice-chairman, treasurer, and four other
members elected annually by the commission.  The executive committee, subject
to the provisions of this compact and consistent with the policies of the
commission, shall function as provided in the bylaws of the commission.
(b)  The commission may establish advisory and technical committees,
membership on which may include private persons and public officials, in
furthering any of its activities.  Such committees may consider any matter of
concern to the commission, including problems of special interest to any party
state and problems dealing with particular types of taxes.
(c)  The commission may establish such additional committees as its bylaws may
provide.
Powers
3.  In addition to powers conferred elsewhere in this compact, the commission
shall have power to:
(a)  study state and local tax systems and particular types of state and local
taxes;
(b)  develop and recommend proposals for an increase in uniformity or
compatibility of state and local tax laws with a view toward encouraging the
simplification and improvement of state and local tax law and administration;
(c)  compile and publish information as in its judgment would assist the party
states in implementation of the compact and taxpayers in complying with state
and local tax laws; and
(d)  do all things necessary and incidental to the administration of its
functions pursuant to this compact.
Finance
4. (a)  The commission shall submit to the governor or designated officer or
officers of each party state a budget of its estimated expenditures for such
period as may be required by the laws of that state for presentation to the
legislature thereof.
(b)  Each of the commission's budgets of estimated expenditures shall contain
specific recommendations of the amounts to be appropriated by each of the
party states.  The total amount of appropriations requested under any such
budget shall be apportioned among the party states as follows: one-tenth in
equal shares; and the remainder in proportion to the amount of revenue
collected by each party state and its subdivisions from income taxes, capital
stock taxes, gross receipts taxes, sales and use taxes.  In determining such
amounts, the commission shall employ such available public sources of
information as, in its judgment, present the most equitable and accurate
comparisons among the party states.  Each of the commission's budgets of
estimated expenditures and requests for appropriations shall indicate the
sources used in obtaining information employed in applying the formula
contained in this paragraph.
(c)  The commission shall not pledge the credit of any party state.  The
commission may meet any of its obligations in whole or in part with funds
available to it under paragraph 1 (i) of this article; provided that the
commission takes specific action setting aside such funds prior to incurring
any obligation to be met in whole or in part in such manner.  Except where the
commission makes use of funds available to it under paragraph 1 (i), the
commission shall not incur any obligation prior to the allotment of funds by
the party states adequate to meet the same.
(d)  The commission shall keep accurate accounts of all receipts and
disbursements.  The receipts and disbursements of the commission shall be
subject to the audit and accounting procedures established under its bylaws.
All receipts and disbursements of funds handled by the commission shall be
audited yearly by a certified or licensed public accountant and the report of
the audit shall be included in and become part of the annual report of the
commission.
(e)  The accounts of the commission shall be open at any reasonable time for
inspection by duly constituted officers of the party states and by any persons
authorized by the commission.
(f)  Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to prevent
commission compliance with laws relating to audit or inspection of accounts by
or on behalf of any government contributing to the support of the commission.

ARTICLE VII.  UNIFORM REGULATIONS AND FORMS
1.  Whenever any two or more party states, or subdivisions of party states,
have uniform or similar provisions of law relating to an income tax, the
commission may adopt uniform regulations for any phase of the administration
of such law, including assertion of jurisdiction to tax, or prescribing
uniform tax forms.  The commission may also act with respect to the provisions
of Article IV of this compact.
2.  Prior to the adoption of any regulations, the commission shall:
(a)  as provided in its bylaws, hold at least one public hearing on due notice
to all affected party states and subdivisions thereof and to all taxpayers and
other persons who have made timely request of the commission for advance
notice of its regulation-making proceedings; and
(b)  afford all affected party states and subdivisions and interested persons
an opportunity to submit relevant written data and views, which shall be
considered fully by the commission.
3.  The commission shall submit any regulations adopted by it to the
appropriate officials of all party states and subdivisions to which they might
apply.  Each such state and subdivision shall consider any such regulation for
adoption in accordance with its own laws and procedures.

ARTICLE VIII.  INTERSTATE AUDITS
1.  This article shall be in force only in those party states that
specifically provide therefor by statute.
2.  Any party state or subdivision thereof desiring to make or participate in
an audit of any accounts, books, papers, records, or other documents may
request the commission to perform the audit on its behalf.  In responding to
the request, the commission shall have access to and may examine, at any
reasonable time, such accounts, books, papers, records, and other documents
and any relevant property or stock of merchandise.  The commission may enter
into agreements with party states or their subdivisions for assistance in
performance of the audit.  The commission shall make charges, to be paid by
the state or local government or governments for which it performs the
service, for any audits performed by it in order to reimburse itself for the
actual costs incurred in making the audit.
3.  The commission may require the attendance of any person within the state
where it is conducting an audit or part thereof at a time and place fixed by
it within such state for the purpose of giving testimony with respect to any
account, book, paper, document, other record, property, or stock of
merchandise being examined in connection with the audit.  If the person is not
within the jurisdiction, he may be required to attend for such purpose at any
time and place fixed by the commission within the state of which he is a
resident; provided that such state has adopted this article.
4.  The commission may apply to any court having power to issue compulsory
process for orders in aid of its powers and responsibilities pursuant to this
article and any and all such courts shall have jurisdiction to issue such
orders.  Failure of any person to obey any such order shall be punishable as
contempt of the issuing court.  If the party or subject matter on account of
which the commission seeks an order is within the jurisdiction of the court to
which application is made, such application may be to a court in the state or
subdivision on behalf of which the audit is being made or a court in the state
in which the object of the order being sought is situated.  The provisions of
this paragraph apply only to courts in a state that has adopted this article.
5.  The commission may decline to perform any audit requested if it finds that
its available personnel or other resources are insufficient for the purpose or
that, in the terms requested, the audit is impracticable of satisfactory
performance.  If the commission, on the basis of its experience, has reason to
believe that an audit of a particular taxpayer, either at a particular time or
on a particular schedule, would be of interest to a number of party states or
their subdivisions, it may offer to make the audit or audits, the offer to be
contingent on sufficient participation therein as determined by the
commission.
6.  Information obtained by any audit pursuant to this article shall be
confidential and available only for tax purposes to party states, their
subdivisions or the United States.  Availability of information shall be in
accordance with the laws of the states or subdivisions on whose account the
commission performs the audit, and only through the appropriate agencies or
officers of such states or subdivisions.  Nothing in this article shall be
construed to require any taxpayer to keep records for any period not otherwise
required by law.
7.  Other arrangements made or authorized pursuant to law for cooperative
audit by or on behalf of the party states or any of their subdivisions are not
superseded or invalidated by this article.
8.  In no event shall the commission make any charge against a taxpayer for an
audit.
9.  As used in this article, "tax," in addition to the meaning ascribed to it
in Article II, means any tax or license fee imposed in whole or in part for
revenue purposes.

ARTICLE IX.  ARBITRATION
1.  Whenever the commission finds a need for settling disputes concerning
apportionments and allocations by arbitration, it may adopt a regulation
placing this article in effect, notwithstanding the provisions of Article VII.
2.  The commission shall select and maintain an arbitration panel composed of
officers and employees of state and local governments and private persons who
shall be knowledgeable and experienced in matters of tax law and
administration.
3.  Whenever a taxpayer who has elected to employ Article IV, or whenever the
laws of the party state or subdivision thereof are substantially identical
with the relevant provisions of Article IV, the taxpayer, by written notice to
the commission and to each party state or subdivision thereof that would be
affected, may secure arbitration of an apportionment or allocation, if he is
dissatisfied with the final administrative determination of the tax agency of
the state or subdivision with respect thereto on the ground that it would
subject him to double or multiple taxation by two or more party states or
subdivisions thereof.  Each party state and subdivision thereof hereby
consents to the arbitration as provided herein, and agrees to be bound
thereby.
4.  The arbitration board shall be composed of one person selected by the
taxpayer, one by the agency or agencies involved, and one member of the
commission's arbitration panel.  If the agencies involved are unable to agree
on the person to be selected by them, such person shall be selected by lot
from the total membership of the arbitration panel.  The two persons selected
for the board in the manner provided by the foregoing provisions of this
paragraph shall jointly select the third member of the board.  If they are
unable to agree on the selection, the third member shall be selected by lot
from among the total membership of the arbitration panel.  No member of a
board selected by lot shall be qualified to serve if he is an officer or
employee or is otherwise affiliated with any party to the arbitration
proceeding.  Residence within the jurisdiction of a party to the arbitration
proceeding shall not constitute affiliation within the meaning of this
paragraph.
5.  The board may sit in any state or subdivision party to the proceeding, in
the state of the taxpayer's incorporation, residence, or domicile, in any
state where the taxpayer does business, or in any place that it finds most
appropriate for gaining access to evidence relevant to the matter before it.
6.  The board shall give due notice of the times and places of its hearings.
The parties shall be entitled to be heard, to present evidence, and to examine
and cross-examine witnesses.  The board shall act by majority vote.
7.  The board shall have power to administer oaths, take testimony, subpoena
and require the attendance of witnesses and the production of accounts, books,
papers, records, and other documents, and issue commissions to take testimony.
Subpoenas may be signed by any member of the board.  In case of failure to
obey a subpoena, and upon application by the board, any judge of a court of
competent jurisdiction of the state in which the board is sitting or in which
the person to whom the subpoena is directed may be found may make an order
requiring compliance with the subpoena, and the court may punish failure to
obey the order as a contempt.  The provisions of this paragraph apply only in
states that have adopted this article.
8.  Unless the parties otherwise agree the expenses and other costs of the
arbitration shall be assessed and allocated among the parties by the board in
such manner as it may determine.  The commission shall fix a schedule of
compensation for members of arbitration boards and of other allowable expenses
and costs.  No officer or employee of a state or local government who serves
as a member of a board shall be entitled to compensation therefor unless he is
required on account of his service to forego the regular compensation
attaching to his public employment, but any such board members shall be
entitled to expenses.
9.  The board shall determine the disputed apportionment or allocation and any
matters necessary thereto.  The determinations of the board shall be final for
purposes of making the apportionment or allocation, but for no other purpose.
10.  The board shall file with the commission and with each tax agency
represented in the proceeding: the determination of the board; the board's
written statement of its reason therefor; the record of the board's
proceedings; and any other documents required by the arbitration rules of the
commission to be filed.
11.  The commission shall publish the determinations of boards together with
the statements of the reasons therefor.
12.  The commission shall adopt and publish rules of procedure and practice
and shall file a copy of such rules and of any amendment thereto with the
appropriate agency or officer in each of the party states.
13.  Nothing contained herein shall prevent at any time a written compromise
of any matter or matters in dispute, if otherwise lawful, by the parties to
the arbitration proceeding.

ARTICLE X.  ENTRY INTO FORCE AND WITHDRAWAL
1.  This compact shall enter into force when enacted into law by any seven
states.  Thereafter, this compact shall become effective as to any other state
upon its enactment thereof.  The commission shall arrange for notification of
all party states whenever there is a new enactment of the compact.
2.  Any party state may withdraw from this compact by enacting a statute
repealing the same.  No withdrawal shall affect any liability already incurred
by or chargeable to a party state prior to the time of such withdrawal.
3.  No proceeding commenced before an arbitration board prior to the
withdrawal of a state and to which the withdrawing state or any subdivision
thereof is a party shall be discontinued or terminated by the withdrawal, nor
shall the board thereby lose jurisdiction over any of the parties to the
proceeding necessary to make a binding determination therein.

ARTICLE XI.  EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS AND JURISDICTION
Nothing in this compact shall be construed to:
(a)  affect the power of any state or subdivision thereof to fix rates of
taxation, except that a party state shall be obligated to implement Article
III 2 of this compact;
(b)  apply to any tax or fixed fee imposed for the registration of a motor
vehicle or any tax on motor fuel, other than a sales tax; provided that the
definition of "tax" in Article VIII 9 may apply for the purposes of that
article and the commission's powers of study and recommendation pursuant to
Article VI 3 may apply;
(c)  withdraw or limit the jurisdiction of any state or local court or
administrative officer or body with respect to any person, corporation or
other entity or subject matter, except to the extent that such jurisdiction is
expressly conferred by or pursuant to this compact upon another agency or
body; or
(d)  supersede or limit the jurisdiction of any court of the United States.

ARTICLE XII.  CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY
This compact shall be liberally construed so as to effectuate the purposes
thereof.  The provisions of this compact shall be severable and if any phrase,
clause, sentence, or provision of this compact is declared to be contrary to
the constitution of any state or of the United States or the applicability
thereof to any government, agency, person, or circumstance is held invalid,
the validity of the remainder of this compact and the applicability thereof to
any government, agency, person, or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.
If this compact shall be held contrary to the constitution of any state
participating therein, the compact shall remain in full force and effect as to
the remaining party states and in full force and effect as to the state
affected as to all severable matters.
