59-1-1414.   Warrant procedures -- Judgment -- Notice requirements after
filing warrant.
(1)  Except as provided in Subsections (3) and (4), if a person who owes a
liability fails to pay that liability within 30 days after the day on which
the commission mails notice and demand under Section 59-1-1411, the commission
may:
(a)  file a warrant with the clerk of:
(i)  except as provided in Subsection (1)(a)(ii), the district court of any
county in which that person has real or personal property; or
(ii)  if the person is not a resident of this state, the Third District Court
in Salt Lake City; or
(b)  issue a warrant in duplicate under its official seal directed to the
sheriff of a county requiring the sheriff to:
(i)  levy upon and sell the person's real and personal property for the
payment of the liability, plus the cost of executing the warrant; and
(ii)  return to the commission within 60 days:
(A)  the warrant; and
(B)  the money collected under the warrant.
(2) (a)  A sheriff that receives a warrant under Subsection (1) shall within
five days file a duplicate copy of the warrant with the clerk of the district
court of the appropriate county.
(b) (i)  The sheriff shall execute the warrant in the same manner prescribed
by law for an execution issued against property in accordance with a judgment
by a court.
(ii)  An execution of a warrant described in Subsection (2)(b)(i) has the same
effect as an execution issued against property in accordance with a judgment
by a court.
(iii)  A sheriff that executes a warrant under Subsection (2)(b)(i) shall
receive fees for the sheriff's services in executing the warrant as if the
sheriff were executing a judgment by a court.
(3)  The commission may file a warrant without regard to the 30-day period
provided in Subsection (1) if the commission finds that the collection of a
liability that a person owes is in jeopardy.
(4)  The commission may not file a warrant under this section more than three
years after the assessment of the tax, fee, or charge that is a portion of a
liability.
(5)  A clerk of a district court that receives a warrant under this section
shall enter in the judgment docket:
(a)  in the column for judgment debtors, the name of the person stated in the
warrant; and
(b)  in appropriate columns:
(i)  the amount for which the warrant is filed; and
(ii)  the date the warrant is filed.
(6)  Notwithstanding Section 78B-5-202, the liability that serves as the basis
for a warrant is a binding lien upon the real, personal, and other property of
the person to the same extent as other judgments docketed in the office of the
clerk of the district court.
(7)  When a warrant is filed with the clerk of a district court in accordance
with this section, the commission is considered to have obtained a judgment
against a person for a liability.
(8)  Notwithstanding Section 78B-5-202, a judgment described in Subsection (7)
is effective for a period ending ten years after the date the amount for which
the warrant is filed is assessed in accordance with Section 59-1-1408.
(9)  The commission may not renew a judgment described in Subsection (7).
(10)  The commission may authorize an action or proceeding to collect or
enforce a judgment described in Subsection (7) in any place and by any
procedure that a civil judgment of the Utah Supreme Court may be collected or
enforced if:
(a)  a warrant is filed under this section against a person who is not a
resident of this state; and
(b)  the commission determines that the person does not have sufficient real
or personal property in the state to pay the person's liability.
(11)  After filing a warrant under Section 59-1-1414, the commission shall
follow the notice requirements of Section 38-12-102.
